# Course 1: Statsig Product Onboarding — Combined Lesson Captions

_Combined caption text from all 23 lessons in this course. Original individual caption files remain at `data/raw/captions/` for granular citation use by the embedded skills (statsig-ask, statsig-quiz, etc.). This combined file exists primarily for NotebookLM ingestion under its 50-source cap._

---

## Statsig 1.2 - Analyze experiment results

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.2 - Analyze experiment results.txt`_

And then results are going to sort of be our home for actually understanding, is this moving my metrics in the way that I want it to? Again, this is a kind of information dense, but we actually find it very effective at communicating all of that information in a way that will hopefully become pretty natural pretty fast. The first section that we'll talk about is just like we have that hypothesis again that sort of is the grounding point for what we're talking about here. This exposures chart is just showing you how many unique units are in each of those groups and, like, how that is trending over time. Generally, this looks something like a curve that sort of flattens out as you have some users who are now repeat users and don't count as a net new user, whereas on first day, like, everyone is net new to that experiment and things along those lines. But your mileage may vary depending on your user traffic patterns. And then we'll actually see the metrics themselves. I'll go ahead and turn this only to one of our test groups just to have one less entry point. And so this is showing for those metrics that we talked about as being our primary metrics and for being our secondary metrics, what is this doing for those users? One thing that people get tripped up a little bit on, this is test, this is control. That is because we're talking about how is test doing relative to control. Is test performing better than control, or is test performing worse than control? The center of all of these bars is going to be that actual mean observed difference between test and control. And there's a few important things to call out there. The first is that it is a mean. This maybe surprises people a little bit sometimes. They might expect to just literally look at how many purchases happened in test and how many purchases happened in control. Whereas we will usually do some version of how many purchases happened per user in test versus how many purchases happened per user in control. We do that for a number of reasons. I think the most obvious reason why that makes sense to do is that, like we mentioned earlier, you can have these uneven splits. You're allowed to do something like run a seventy fivetwenty five test as your test setup. And in those types of scenarios, it doesn't make sense to say like, hey. That seventy five percent group is doing three times better than that twenty five percent group. Right? Like, it it it is an obviously unfair comparison, so we will, generally speaking, normalize for most metrics by the number of users in test versus control. And that'll be that observed numbers. There's a few metrics where that won't be the case. I'm just calling out if you see that. You can actually hover over this to sort of understand what we're using to normalize. I think particularly for certain ratio metrics, you might find that number is not exactly this number because there are some scenarios where, like, we're looking at a conversion rate metric. And so it only makes sense to look at users who had that first step of that conversion. This hover card in general, awesome resource for just, like, starting to peer into the math of what's happening here. You can also get the actual p value for all of our stats friends in the crowd if you want to see that yourself. There's also this explanation tab that sort of walks through what we're taking a look at here. And so while this is on the screen, I'll also explain what we're taking a look at here. Like mentioned, this center bar is that actual difference that, like, mean movement. And then the rest of it is going to represent the confidence interval. And so the way I like to phrase this, especially the people who maybe have less of a stats background, your rough guidance, if you don't have that stats background, it's just like, what is a reasonable range of outcomes to attribute to this experiment? Given that there is noise, what should I think about as what this thing is really doing? I think the technical stats version of this is sort of the opposite, where if I ran this experiment one hundred times, the true underlying result would be captured by each experiment's circle ninety five percent of the time with a ninety five percent CI. But I think for most folks saying, this is the range of outcomes I should view as this experiment is saying is reasonable for this is sort of what I would go with. And so if that entire range of outcomes does not include that there is a zero percent difference between test and control, We are saying there is a statistically significant difference between testing control, stat sake. It's where the name comes from. And so in cases where it is fully to the right of it, we feel confident that this thing has increased with a predefined confidence level that this thing has increased. If it is fully to the left, we feel confident that test has decreased this thing. And so if it includes zero percent, we do not feel comfortable saying that test is better or worse than control. Both sides have reasonable outcomes that, like, could reasonably be attributed to this. There are some metrics where down is good and up is bad, namely like perf metrics and things like that. So you can even tell us for that given metric, actually, I want you to color it green when it's down and a red when it's up, and we will happily do that as well just so that people can have that sort of nice glance value, so to speak. Taking a look at things, understanding are a bunch of things really good, really bad, what should my eyes be drawn towards, etcetera. Yeah, so that's sort of the basics of what we're looking at here. There's a lot more settings that you have at your disposal where you can do things like say, hey, instead of looking at over the lifetime of the experiment, I want to see what this looked like for a given day or things like that. And there will probably be a lot more noise there because you have less data points in each data point, so to speak, but you will be able to take a look at that sort of thing. This is really nice when there is a real life thing that happened that affected this experiment. I've seen cases where it's like a bug got shipped on day X, and we can go ahead and take a look at the daily chart, it's like, Wow, tests suddenly started performing really poorly on day X. The other one that I find really useful is days since exposure, particularly if you have a product where you're thinking a lot about novelty effects. In this case, we're actually not seeing that many novelty effects in particular, but this is a view of on a user's first day after seeing your experiment for the first time, how did test perform versus control? On the second day after the user saw your experiment for the first time, how did test perform versus control? And so, like, I was at Facebook prior to being at Statsig, and it was definitely the case there that if you just change the icon for something, people would click on it more for a few days, and then they would quickly realize, no. It's actually the same button. It always was. But it, like, it looked new. It looked novel. Right? And so when you take a look at these sort of things, you would have these, like, really nice spikes on the first day, and then it would taper off. You might have something where it takes a while for it to have its effect, and you might see sort of the opposite types of behavior. So this is a really cool view for just diving deeper into that. And then the way we can dive even deeper tends to be via Explore. Explore allows us to do a number of things. Number one is it allows us to go ahead and look at other types of metrics that maybe we didn't include in our scorecard. So maybe I didn't include those performance metrics. I can still go ahead and take a look at our performance metrics or our infra metrics. I can do those types of things. I can also do things where I'm, like, starting to segment out my results by different, like, attributes of users. So for instance, maybe I actually do wanna see how these results are different per region or per country or per operating system, things like that. And I can go ahead and say, okay, show me the iOS users and show me the Android users, and let's see how they're different. The note for those is we sort of crystallize those on the user's first exposure to the experiment because that might change as a result of the experiment. So we do crystallize those, so to speak. And so this is your tool to really dive deeper into them and to even look at more specific data ranges. If you want to look specifically at this window, you can do that via the Explorer as well. Cool.

---

## Statsig 1.2 - Create manage and analyze experiments

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.2 - Create manage and analyze experiments.txt`_

For an experiment, there's sort of a few key pieces we'll want you to come to the table with as we're getting started. So, if we do something like this, even before we dive in too much, one important thing that we'll highlight here is actually just what am I running this experiment on? What's my unit, so to speak? This is a important question, one that you probably won't change your answer to too much over time, but, like, an important one to consider as you're thinking about running this thing. And so this is, like, what are we actually using for randomization? For many people, they are running a site where their users never even log in, and it just makes sense to use a device or an anonymous, like, identifier. Our stable ID is a good option there. We will auto generate one, throw it in local storage, and it's just something you can use to identify the same person in general. But for many places where you do actually have a logged in user, it makes a lot more sense to go the user ID route so that you can actually make sure they are having a consistent experience device to device, things like that. So there's always this sort of question there of what does it make sense to use as my identifier of choice? And then we'll sort of get into a form that'll give us a lot of what we need to be thinking about, what we're going to be walking through as we're going through this process. And so we've chatted some in the past about gates where they're really designed over, I want to just roll this thing out, but I wanna do it safely and I wanna measure the impact, etcetera. For experiments, we really do think of this as, like, the primary objective is less I want to roll this thing out and more I want to learn about the impact of this change or of these changes as the case may be. And so, everything you'll see is centered around that idea, around learning being the primary objective. And so, this is where I like to ask people to think back to maybe middle school or secondary school science class. At least where I grew up, we had an acronym for the scientific method called PHEOC, where you have a problem, you have a hypothesis, you run an experiment, you observe, and then you draw a conclusion from that. And that's actually sort of gonna be the same process here. We are trying to run an experiment because we're trying to learn. And so we want you to come to the table of what your hypothesis is. What is the thing that we're testing in terms of, are we having this expected change or not? And so there's almost a crawl walk run of sorts even to thinking about hypotheses in terms of what information you can provide when we're talking about this that'll make this a better experiment, better experience, so to speak. The sort of zero level version of this is almost just like, I am making this change and just describing that change and not really giving much context over what you're expecting to move and then just looking at the results after. The reason we don't want you to do that is because it'll, like, make you more susceptible to false positives, so to speak. If you have fifty metrics, even if you're running an AA test, there's pretty good odds that one of them is going to show movement just due to noise. Your users are not perfect little automatons. So when we randomly divide them up, there will be noise, there will be differences between their groups. You are insulating yourself from that sort of effect by saying, hey, I want to look for this particular metric to move, not just, Did any metric move? Let's see everything that moved and look at the impact. There's actually even a good story there, I think from Roni Kahavi, where when he was at Bing, one of the exercises he would do for people in their first few weeks would be to just get a bunch of them in a room and give them an experiment readout, and then have them decide if they should ship or not ship this thing. And they would debate it for a bit. Some people would feel very passionately it should be shipped, some would feel very passionately that actually control should be shipped. And then at the end, he would reveal that it was just an AA test. There was no difference between those. And that's why a key part of even reading out results is just understanding what differences were we expecting, and then are we seeing those expected differences, not just are there any differences. Right? And so the sort of good baseline version of this is saying, I am making this change, and I expect this to increase this metric. I am actually coming to the table and saying, like, this is what movement I'm expecting to see. This is, you know, what change I'm making in the first place. It gets even better if we start to elaborate a little bit more on why and do something like this where, like, I am explaining why this makes sense for user behavior to be changing in this way instead of just, like, saying this thing is changing and then this is what we'll see. The things that we can do to even go above and beyond here are doing things like estimating what sort of movement we would expect to see if things are going the way we expect them to. If I am making a tiny, tiny tweak to some back end infrastructure, I might be trying to lower memory usage by, like, a percentage point or half a percentage point or something like that. If I am totally revamping our entire UI of the front end for the checkout flow, it might be a more dramatic shift that I'm looking to achieve with that. And coming to the table with even that sort of order of magnitude is quite useful. We definitely don't expect that people are going to have crystal balls they can look into and say, oh, this change is going to have a five point four three percent increase. Like, that is sort of an unrealistic expectation. But saying that I think this thing is going to double versus I think it's gonna go up by two percent is the sort of things we want to bring to the table. Is it gonna be a ten percent increase, a fifty percent increase, two percent increase, things like that? Just staking your claim a little bit on this is what we are hoping for, expecting to see, etcetera. Not that it will always align perfectly to reality, and that is part of where this is also more of an art than a science, in that your product intuition feeds really nicely with the experiments that you run. You run things, you measure their impact, that informs what you think those types of changes will do in the future and also informs future changes in a nice way. The next thing we'll be doing after we've gone and said, this is why we're making this change in the first place, which, again, people probably already have a pretty good idea for why they're doing it. Otherwise, like, why did we do all the work to do it? We want to go ahead and say, like, what metrics we're going to be looking at to measure this change. For us, we divide these into two sections, primary and secondary metrics. I like to think of primary metrics as often being the reasons you would ship something. They are, a, going to be these types of things that you're, like, explicitly calling out in your hypothesis as being what should move. You would be making the case for shipping an experience based on these moving in the direction you expect. So for that infra experiment, it might be that my primary metric is memory, like, information. But for that checkout experiment, my primary metric might be conversions or number of total checkout successes and things like that. Secondary metrics, on the other hand, tend to be more in the camp of here are reasons why I wouldn't ship this thing. Those come in sort of two flavors in my experience. It's either these broad company level goals where it's not even something I'm expecting to be able to move necessarily. Revenue is often a good example here where that's a pretty meaty, hard to move thing, but you do generally care about it. And so you just want to always understand the impact on that via tags, which we'll talk more about later. There are lots of things people can do to say, oh, we should just always include this core set of metrics as a secondary metric. The other things that tend to come up here are more either, like, performance related things where it's just, like, even for that checkout redesign, I wanna make sure that I'm not increasing page load times. I'm not trying to move it necessarily. I just wanna keep an eye on it as well as other metrics that are tangential to what experience we're, like, making the change to, even if they're not necessarily the reason you're going to sort of advocate for shipping something. The other thing I'll call out here, just like organizationally, tags on your metrics are a great way to do this and to make sure that you can add a bunch of things all at once. So for instance, anything with that special core tag will actually get included by default in your secondary metrics. So just a way to make sure people are being consistent about taking a look at those things that you care a lot about. Also, a great way if you have, like, a growth team, you can be like, here are the growth metrics, and they can just add them in really easily. The final thing before we get into, like, the meat, the nitty gritty of running this experiment is just how long are we planning to run this for? There's, again, a few different, like, levels of sophistication we see people go for here. The sort of, like, baseline version is something like deciding how long you run experiments for in general. Our sort of thoughts on reasonable defaults tend to be on the order of, like, two weeks, four weeks, things like that. We do generally recommend, especially for product experiments, skewing towards having it be some multiple of seven in terms of how many days you run this thing for. Just because we generally find, I think everyone finds, the people using their product on the weekends are very different than the people using the product on weekdays. And so it's nice to just know that, like, when we are on experiments, we'll always be considering those two groups in roughly equal measure because we always run for a multiple of seven days. The other thing that people will sometimes do is snap when they start and when they read out to certain days of the week as another thing that sort of does that. The more advanced version of this is using something like the power analysis calculator to actually peer into sort of, like, what sorts of changes you can reliably measure. We won't peer too much into this today, but essentially you're just saying, like, hey, I have this metric. What can I reliably measure? If I run this thing for two weeks, what sort of movement can I reliably take a look at? If I run this thing for three weeks, what can I reliably measure? And so that is going to be what allows you to have these experiment life cycles that sort of take into account that thing we were talking about earlier, where we want to bring that order of magnitude to the table. Is it going to be reasonable for us to be able to measure that five percent increase? The answer might be no. In which case, it's like, okay. Are there other metrics we should be looking at as, like, sort of proxies? Does it make sense to run this more as a do no harm? Things like that because we just don't think we would be able to reliably measure the type of impact we're expecting to see. But, yeah, setting that duration is just useful from that perspective of informing people taking a look at this, how long should I run this for? We'll actually propagate that through to a few different places in the UI. So, like, up here when it started, it'll sort of give an indicator of how long into the flow it's been. We'll also send some, like, emails and things like that being like, hey. It's time to make your decision. The thing I like to call out that sometimes people are a little afraid of, we won't end the experiment ourselves when it hits that duration. It's not going to suddenly stop it without your intervention, without your consent there. It's more just guidance for people on when it makes sense for us to be making decisions, things like that. More there as a tool to help prevent other people from having to ask you all the time, Hey, are we ready to make a decision on that thing yet? You can be like, No, We've said it would run for twenty eight days, and it's only been fourteen days. This groups and parameters section is sort of like the meat and potatoes of the experiment. This is what's going to actually determine who is getting what experience in terms of the experiment. And so this is actually a very literal flowchart, surprisingly literal perhaps, in terms of how we decide, a, is a user eligible to be part of this experiment, and b, if they are, what group they should they get? So this first section up here, allocation, is actually like a pretty literal knob or dial that you have control over to ramp up an experiment over time. In particular, people often come to the table and they're like, hey. I actually have this, like, quite risky change. How should I think about running this experiment? I don't want to cause crashes, but I do want to, like, measure its impact. And so starting the experiment at a low allocation is often a good way to achieve that. You are limiting the blast radius, so to speak, to instead of being fifty percent of all of your users, it's five of your users or one percent of your users. That has obvious trade offs. You get a lot less statistical power because you have so many fewer users, So we wouldn't recommend, like, keeping it at five percent for the entire time you want to run the experiment for. But you will often find that, like, crash rates and many of those types of net metrics, you can get a decent enough readout on fairly quickly. They tend to be pretty sensitive. And so you can pretty quickly have an idea of, am I causing massive increases in crashes? That order of magnitude comes into play tier two. Right? Like, I can even if I couldn't reliably measure a five percent increase in revenue or decrease in revenue, I can probably measure a fifty percent decrease in revenue pretty well. And so when you start to feel more confident in the results of the experiment that you're not causing issues, we're not necessarily saying, should we ship this thing or not, you can start to ramp this up over time while the experiment is running. Going up is a safe thing to do to eventually just increase the allocation to running on whatever percentage of user base makes sense to run this thing on, often a hundred percent eventually. The other thing that will come into play is targeting. Some people over index on this a little bit. So one thing that I will call out is that the number one thing that determines if a user is part of your experiment is going to be if they check that experiment in code. So I just call that out because I see a lot of people are going the route of, like, trying to do targeting on a specific page or things like that. And, like, then you take a look at their, like, code architecture and, like, this unit is only part of that page, and this experiment only gets checked in that unit. You actually don't need to add ex like, any explicit targeting to Statsig. The code is already only checking it in those cases. On the flip side, things like country, you probably don't actually fork your code for country or at least many people do not. And so it will often make sense to if you only want to run this experiment on users in the US or you're only ready to because you need to wait for translations or something like that, it often will, in those cases, make more sense to filter down to users in the US or maybe users where their locale is English or things like that. For both of these buckets, these are just determining is the user part of the experiment at all. If they are not, because they either were not in the percentage of users allocated to the experiment or because they failed the targeting rule, then they will receive the default experience defined in code, which is the same experience that will be used when the experiment hasn't even started yet. So it should be something that's fairly safe to do. We'll show what that, like, code snippet looks like in just a moment once we get through talking about parameters. You will explicitly define what that experience should be, and it should be that, like, safety vault experience that folks should get. And then we get to the fun part where we get to say, okay. We have a bunch of users who are in our experiment itself. How do we think about what experience they should get and what that experience is, what it looks like? So this is where we are splitting them between different variants. Unlike feature gates, we actually are able to add in extra groups, and so I can run a three way experiment, I could do it four ways, etc. We will often recommend that you keep these even. You get the most statistical power that way, and sort of, like, the main reason we see people going for, like, skewed splits here is because they are worried about, like, one of the groups being dangerous. And in those situations, we often just will recommend starting on a lower allocation instead. But you do have the control over that to say, hey. I actually do want to run this instead of a twenty five twenty five twenty five split. I want to have less users in one of my groups, and it will sort of balance them back under control, and you can spend that allocation. The other things that you can do here are add some extra context to people on your end around what these groups look like. The first thing is just, like, the name of the group, but you can even do things like add a description or even add an image. Adding an image is an awesome thing to do, particularly if there's a UI change. It just makes our experiment reviews, which we'll be talking about in a little bit, a lot easier, especially as we're building sort of like a library of sorts where we want these to be things that people can come back to six months later, a year later, two years later, and understand some of the types of things people at your company have tried and what they found when they tried those things. And so having that literal UI image of, like, here is the change we made is awesome for those scenarios. For many places that we compete with, and they really, really key in on group name, you still are able to use group name in us as well. But we do think it leads to rather inelegant code in a lot of scenarios where you find yourself repeating things a lot, a lot of if else's. So if control, do a b c d e. If test, do a b c d e. If test two, do a b c d e f. And so we actually find parameters as a really nice way to simplify a lot of that and give more context to other people looking at your in Statsig around what actually changed. And so examples here that we can do, if I, for instance, was just, like, changing the color of a button, I could have four different versions of that button and then serve each one depending on which group you're in, or I can actually, like, just here say what color it is. And then when I'm creating that button, if I'm in, like, JavaScript or something, I can just put in that color directly. And that will mean that I got to duplicate less code. And when I take a look at this here, I can literally see what's changing. And you can do that across multiple different parameters. The other place we see this get used really heavily is when we're talking about people running, like, machine learning type experiments or even, like, making use of LLMs and stuff where there are just a bunch of arguments they can pass in. It's really nice to just specify a bunch of those, like, weights and ranking parameters and things like that and just be like, okay. Cool. The experiment just you just grab whatever it should be and use it. You don't actually have to think as much about what group the user is, and you're just saying use the appropriate values for whatever group you're in. Taking a look at the code snippets, this is sort of what that tends to look like. I'll go ahead and save just so it knows about my parameter. And then when I finish saving, I can go ahead and show you that when we are either server side or client side, we have typed getters for all of those different things. So you just get the experiment, and then you get that parameter off of it. And then you can use that pretty directly, and you can choose whichever parameter makes sense. And, again, we have code snippets for most of our most popular ones just in product here. And, again, I will call out that default value. You are specifying on that getter what should I use if I'm not part of this experiment, if the experiment's not started yet, etcetera. There is a bunch of advanced settings that we'll probably save towards the end of things.

---

## Statsig 1.2 - Experiments - Introduction

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.2 - Experiments - Introduction.txt`_

My name is Ben. I lead our account management team here at Statsig. We're excited to talk to you about one of our favorite topics and one of our our deepest product areas, experimentation. We've also got Tyler with us today. Tyler is an engineer on our enterprise engineering team. That means he has built our product. He has worked with hundreds of customers now getting up to speed on Statsig and building a culture around experimentation. We're really gonna dive deep in that today. We've done some previous sessions around setting up Statsig using our SDKs, getting events and data in building a metrics catalog, all foundational elements of Statsig to then get to this point of running rich experiments and really getting the most out of the platform. But we're going to be talking about how to create and manage these experiments, how to target different variations to test out multiple different experiences for a new product that you're releasing. We want to coach you through once we manage it and we start to see results. How am I going to interpret the results of that experiment against the metrics I care about? We're going to think about how we avoid interaction detection or interaction effect across multiple experiments with mutual exclusivity, when we should care about that and some myths that I'm sure Tyler is thinking about debunking as well. And then some really cool meta analysis at the end of how we measure the aggregate impact of our work, whether in a single experiment, potentially even across a whole portfolio. I won't put too many words in your mouth, Tyler, but thank you again for taking time with us today. All yours. Yeah, super excited to be chatting about all of this. Thanks, Ben. This is really like our core bread and butter. So it's one of our favorite, favorite topics to talk about is how to think about running good experiments, how to run those in Statsig and just really get the most out of that. So yeah, we'll actually be diving into the product for pretty much all of this session. Once we hop off of this agenda slide, we will be walking you through, okay, how do I go from creating an experiment to actually doing some readout of that to understand the results? And then also we'll be touching on a lot of these hairy, thorny questions of, Oh, how do I think about interaction effects? When should I be more afraid of those? When should I be less afraid of those? Things like that. And really just how you can start to build the foundations of thinking about this as an experimentation program, so to speak, across multiple things that you're doing.

---

## Statsig 1.2 - Interaction effects

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.2 - Interaction effects.txt`_

I'll switch gears a little bit towards this other big hairy topic of interaction effects and how to think about all these different experiments I'm running, and how do I actually still get good readouts on them. The first thing I'll say is that our sort of house opinion, so to speak, is that many people are a little more afraid of interaction effects than they need to be. In general, you should feel some level of confidence that with your user base, as long as your user base is sufficiently large, you are actually getting a nice split of users in test and control where those users in those experiences are getting all of your other experiences randomly. And the differences between test and control really should be able to be attributed towards that experiment itself. That being said, we do think there are cases where you would have strong opinions that these two experiments specifically are going to clash with each other really hard and cause some unexpected behaviors or really strong behaviors. We sometimes see people come to us where they're like, oh, I want a user to be in one experiment at a time across my site. And we think those sorts of things are kind of just, frankly, unsustainable. You will just run out of users too fast to run a meaningful volume of experiments. If I want to run five experiments, each of them can only run on twenty percent of my user base. But for specific areas, that tends to be where we sort of start to think this sort of thing makes sense. For my left rail, for instance, right here, we do run experiments on this and how we think about it's like information hierarchy. If we're running five experiments, each of them have two groups. That is what, two to the five different versions of my left rail specifically. And that is just sort of a lot to conceptualize and think about as an engineer who is wanting all these experiences to play nice with each other. There might be cases where we actually know that they will conflict with one another. And we do want to test both of those out, but we want to try them on different audiences. And then where we're making a decision, we'll be very deliberate about which one we actually wind up shipping, but we don't necessarily feel like we have the space to include them in one experiment at a time as three versions of the same experiment. And so the answer to those types of things is layers. Layers are your way to say, hey, I actually want to have something where I will have a bucket or a set of experiments that are all mutually exclusive with one another. I do recommend these, like, map to some little part of your UI or things like that. And so with a layer, the way we accomplish this is actually via the allocation section. As mentioned earlier, this is a dial you can turn to say, like, what percentage of my users get this thing. If we have five experiments and we want none of them to have any overlap, like, pretty clearly, those five experiments allocations can't add up to more than a hundred percent together if they're all gonna be running at the same time. And so your allocation will get capped at how much space is left in the layer, so to speak. So right now, because I'm running some experiment on fifty percent of my users, I still have another fifty percent if I wanted to go ahead and run another experiment as part of this layer. And then all those layers, they're still equally able to have interactions with other experiments. It's just the ones in the set will have distinct mutually exclusive sets of users operating on top of them. The other sort of tangential thing to that in terms of talking about interaction effects is, like, for a lot of people, the most useful thing to do is actually just to quantify this, so to speak. It's less that, like, they view any interaction at all as unsustainable and more just, like, they want to understand how big those interactions are to, like, you know, inform in the future if they think they're unsustainable or things like that. And so one thing you can actually do is in an explore query, you can go ahead and say, want to run a query that is going to tell me about the interaction effect between this experiment and another experiment that I ran. It does have to be one with overlap and on that same unit type. And so when you run this query, you'll actually get back a few things. You'll get back a little breakdown of here's how many users were in each of those buckets of overlap, so to speak. And then the other thing you'll get is for each of those buckets, how did they perform for their metrics? And so that allows you to understand, okay. Like, I had, you know, one experiment with three groups. I had one experiment with two groups. Is one of those six options for test control test two and control test, is one of those six options actually really, really bad or really, really good that I should be aware of? So running that interaction effect detection is a really nice way to sort of put a name to the monster, so to speak, and understand what is actually happening here.

---

## Statsig 1.2 - Meta insights and holdouts

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.2 - Meta insights and holdouts.txt`_

For a lot of people, they're running a lot of experiments, and they sort of wanna understand, like, let me do the flip side. I want to look at things less through, like, what am I making as a decision on an individual experiment and more just like, what experiments are running that affect this metric of mine? How should I think about them from that, like, flipped lens? And for that, that's gonna be where our insights tab comes into play in a pretty big way. First off, insights tab, awesome. Just like sort of overview of what's running, when it was running, etcetera. Just really nice to understand who was doing what and when they were doing it. But you can also look at this from the perspective of a given metric. So I could go ahead and take a look at one of our metrics that was used in one of these experiments and say, show me which metrics moved, for instance, purchase events. So I could go ahead and say, hey. I want to take a look at purchase events. Yeah. I wanna go ahead and take a look at purchase events and took a look over the last year or something like that. I can see, a, like, my overall purchase events, and you can see our site is evidently doing pretty well, our fake demo site. But then I can also see, okay, which experiments were running, which arms of those experiments were helping this thing, which arms of these experiments were hurting this thing. In this case, we don't have anything live that was hurting it. You'll even get this, like, aggregated impact estimate. This is us doing some pretty nice math on top of your experiment results to give your estimate of, like, you ran all these things. They moved these things by this much. What is the total impact of that? This estimate is a pretty nice tool. And then if you want, like, to do the most formal version of getting this, that would be where it makes makes sense to make use of, like, a holdout, for instance, as a way to explicitly have some control group who are not getting any of these experiments at all and compare against those. So holdout is the definitive answer, but it does mean some users won't get any of these things, at least while you're doing that measurement over that half, over that year. This aggregated impact estimate is a good idea to understand. Okay. Are things moving positively or negatively, and then which things are moving those in which ways?

---

## Statsig 1.2 - Validate your experiment setup

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.2 - Validate your experiment setup.txt`_

The other final thing I'll call out before we start talking about reading out the results of this, how do I, a, think about making sure this experiment is doing what I expect it to do before I start it and then after I start it? And so before I start it, this test button is going to be your home for accessing all that stuff. In particular, you can override identifiers to actually explicitly get an experience, and this will take precedence over the fact that the experiment is not started yet. So I can go ahead and say, like, hey. I know my user ID is one two three four five. I want myself right now to get control. And I could even do something and say, actually, I only wanna do that on staging tier. So I can say, hey. If you see user ID one two three four five, give it control right now on staging tier. This is really nice for dev teams, for QA people even. They can just force themselves into a variant, see that experience, make sure it looks good to their eyes. The sort of next tier of that usually looks something like enabling this experiment in lower environments. You can almost think of this as, like, starting the experiment, but not for your production tiers. So when you're initializing the Statsig SDK, one of the things that you pass into it is what environment you're running on. So is this a dev tier? Is this a staging tier? Is this a prod tier? Or whatever tiers you have that makes sense, UAT, QAT, etcetera. And you can go ahead and say, hey. If you check this thing on those environments, you should consider this experiment started and actually do the randomization the way you normally would. So this is a great way to make sure that, especially if you have something where your users or your internal users use your product on secondary tiers, internal tiers, you can go ahead and, like, start getting them randomly assigned into groups so you don't have to, like, pick and choose each person individually and actually just, like, have that experience live in the wild, the controlled wild, where you can have room for people to give, like, feedback on bugs and things like that. And then finally, you are generally speaking at the point where it makes sense to go ahead and start the experiment. And switching over to another one, just so it has some data in here. Once you go ahead and start that experiment, diagnostics sort of becomes your go to place for understanding the health of an experiment. This is not, is this change good for my product? That's results, and we'll talk a ton about that. This is, am I literally setting up the experiment correctly? I said this was gonna be randomized on user ID. Do I provide user ID? I said this was gonna randomize on stable ID. Do I provide stable ID? Things like that. I said this was going to be a fifty fifty test. Does it look like a fifty fifty test? This is doing a chi square test for normality across the different groups and the observed groups relative to what they're supposed to be. And so this is going to be an awesome way to call out like, hey. We think there's something sort of wrong or unfair about the way that users are getting allocated. And usually what this winds up being is there's something that's causing one of the groups to underreport. What that generally looks like is either that group is crashing at a higher rate, or for instance, you're doing a redirect test and some of those users are getting redirected before the exposure finishes firing of like, hey, this person checked this thing. Things like that tend to be what cause SRM to pop up here, sample ratio mismatch. And so you actually have a number of health checks that'll pop up here. This is also not showing all of them. Some of them will only show when it actually has problem just to not overwhelm. The other thing down here is you can actually go ahead and see actual live data coming through of who is checking this experiment, what group are they getting back, why are they getting that group back. You can even filter down to a specific user ID or users on specific device types, things like that. Just if you want to track down, hey. This person said they saw this experience. Does that line up with, like, what we think got served to them? And you can even check that out for nonproduction traffic too. But those tools are sort of like, okay. Am I, like, setting things up correctly to be able to get that fair assessment of am I moving things in the right direction?

---

## Statsig 1.2 - Wrap up

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.2 - Wrap up.txt`_

Cool. So that's a pretty deep dive into a lot of the different options you have when you're talking about experiments, you're going and setting up an experiment. There are lots subsequent options you have at your disposal when we're taking a look at setup where you can do things and say, actually, I prefer Bayesian or actually, I want to run at a different conference interval. But you have a lot of options here. These tend to be things that people are using on their you know, tenth experiment. The sort of default configuration is pretty good for most people, especially as they're getting up and running. And then what you'll generally find is that as you've run more and more experiments, you tend to be like, oh, actually, I have this very targeted question about how would I think about x, y, z? And then it turns out there's some setting you can make use of for that. But we won't go too in-depth on those ones here. And so, yeah, that's sort of like how do I think about experiments in Statsig? What tools do I have at my disposal? How do I think about interpreting those results? That tends to be where people spend the most of their time using STAT SIG, is doing those readouts. And we want it to be something where people across roles can feel like they can go ahead and take a look at the results, understand the experiment that's running right now, understand the experiment that was ran three years ago, and understand, okay, this thing moved these things in these ways. And based on this hypothesis, this was expected or this was really unexpected. And especially those unexpected ones tend to be great fodder for future changes, future experiments that people want to run.

---

## Statsig 1.3 - Diagnostics

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.3 - Diagnostics.txt`_

The final thing I'll talk about before we dive too much into reading out results is, like, how do I actually understand if things are, like, going right? There's sort of two senses of going right. One is it, like, is this doing what I want it to do for my metrics? Again, we'll talk about that later. But the other one is just like, is this gate set up correctly? Am I using it right in Statsig or am I using it right in my code base? That's where diagnostics is really going to be your friend. Diagnostics has two main components that we'll talk about. The first are these health checks. These are a series of diagnostics that we'll be running on your gauge to help you ensure, is it doing what we expected it to do? Is it seeming to be set up in the right way? So the very first one that we'll talk about here is just like, is it getting checked? If your gate is seeing no exposures come through, no one is checking it, it's a little odd. We will just flag it as something that you should maybe keep an eye on. Totally possible that you just aren't intentionally haven't put in code yet. That is why it will default to being a little waiting sign rather than being like a big red X. But that is one that's just like, is this even being used? Beyond that point, again, we talked a lot about ID types. In particular, you have the ability to specify which ID type should matter for an experiment in terms of those rollouts. You're able to do targeting based on those IDs, like as criteria as well. You can do targeting for criterias based on identifiers that are not the main ones. So I could still do some rollout to a specific set of companies even if this is a user ID level gate. The user ID being there is what's actually going to determine when I say fifty percent, it's fifty percent of what? So it's actually very important that is there. This is checking that that is present. So we can also notice down here, those are present here. The final ones that I'll talk about here is just, like, when we do something like, say, hey. I'm doing a fifty fifty rollout. How do I actually validate that it's looking pretty fifty fifty? This is a sample ratio mismatch check where we're actually doing a chi square test on the observed number of users in testing control in true and false and seeing, like, is this aligned with sort of the the balance that you told us about? If it's not, that's a little unusual. Right? If you said, hey. This should be a fifty fifty split, and we look at the data and we're like, ah, it's looking a lot more like a seventy thirty split. It probably means that for some reason, the group that was thirty percent was supposed to have a lot more users who came back and told us about this. Sample ratio mismatch is a very common problem that does have a lot of causes. Common ones there include things like a redirect test or things like that, where some group is being moved to another surface before their logging can finish, things like that. There's sorts of different things you can do to help treat this, but it does vary case by case. This is here to flag, is that even happening? There's also good diagnostics in it that can tell you, like, is this different for different operating systems or for different countries in ways that can help you understand, like, what am I looking at? What am I dealing with here? The other thing I really want to highlight is the exposure stream here. This is a live feed of checks coming through with some dedupping applied to it. So you shouldn't expect every single check to be shown here. In particular, we will generally avoid showing the same user getting the same group for the same rule five times in a row, anything like that. So, again, don't be alarmed if you refresh the page and you don't see it come through as a brand new one. But this is sort of your way to understand, like, what is actually happening with my users right now in the real world. You can actually click on any of these, and you can see, a, who is this user? In this case, we can see it was a user, this ID, on Firefox, on Android, in the US, and they met the criteria for the English locale rule. And because of that, they failed. So we did not release this thing to them because they were in English. This allows you to debug things that, like, you're actually seeing in your end users, actually understand in practice, are things doing the things I expect them to, what things are actually present on that user object that I'm taking a look at, things along those lines. You can even do some sort of live filtering here to track down exactly the types of users we care about, whether that's I want to better understand some rule and say, I want to specifically take a look at the folks who were not part of any of our other rules, and this will do a live query here and get back some of those user IDs. If there's a specific user ID that I was hoping to track down, I can do that too where I can say, hey. I really wanted to see the results for user six zero one three five two. I can see that this user actually checked this thing twice, and they got back true both times for the same rule, which makes sense. And you can even do things like understand the reason why someone got back a rule. This is particularly handy if you're better trying to understand how your SDKs are interacting with this. Are we falling back to cache a lot because we couldn't get network to come through? Things like that are all sort of handy things that you can debug via this exposure stream in addition to just seeing that live traffic come through. You can also toggle over to the nonproduction traffic via this toggle if that is what you're looking to dig into. And then finally, you can take a look at the checks, the live, how much is this thing being checked, what are they getting back, are they getting back true or false, was that overall, is that per rule, etcetera. And you also have the ability to toggle over to unique users or raw number of checks. So, again, it might be totally expected that even for that fifty fifty gate, there are way more checks happening for true than there are for false because maybe true, that code path winds up checking it again. The thing that we care about, is it balanced, is, like, how many unique users are coming through? And truthfully, that's over the course of the lifetime of the gate, not on any given day, but this is a pretty good proxy for your own debugging. So those are a lot of the tools in your toolbox to better understand, is this gate healthy? Is this doing what I want it to do? And, again, we talked a ton about all the different ways we can set this thing up. We'll finally sort of talk through how do I go ahead and actually, like, compute results for this thing. I've talked a lot about how do I make sure that the gate is healthy. I've talked a lot about using it as an on off switch.

---

## Statsig 1.3 - Environments

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.3 - Environments.txt`_

The first thing I wanna talk about are environments. It's often the case that when we're thinking about targeting, we want to think in terms of what people we're talking about, but also where this code is running. When you initialize the SDK, one thing that you're able to pass in is a tier. Is this a development environment? Is this a staging environment? Is this a production environment? We even have folks where they have multiple different flavors of production environments or perhaps they have a UAT tier and things along those lines. Environments allow you to scope down a given rule to only certain scenarios. So for instance, in this case, I am releasing it to everyone, but only if they are on my development or staging tier. We're not actually releasing it to anyone on production. This is, again, another tool at your disposal to really have that sort of fine grained control around who is actually going to see an experience or where people are actually going to see an experience as the case may be. The other sort of related thing to environments is our concept of reviews, which we won't go too deep into at this point. But when people are thinking through review flows, they have the ability to say which environments should require review. We want people to be able to move quickly on their development tiers. We don't really care that much around how they're configuring given rules as they're creating a new feature. We want their tool to move quickly, but we want there to be someone giving that sanity check, giving that stamp of approval before anything is affecting our production users. So we would do something like this where releasing this feature to only development or staging isn't going to require a new review. But when I start modifying the production environment, that's when it will start requiring a review. The other thing I'll call out here is that a lot of times, like, our goal is probably not, let's just turn this thing on right away for everyone and or turn it off right away for everyone. People often want to do things a little bit more gradually, whether that's just so that their infra has a chance to auto scale in response to something if it's causing more requests to come through or just to give us a chance to actually collect some data, which we'll talk more about later on. But

---

## Statsig 1.3 - Feature Gates - Introduction

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.3 - Feature Gates - Introduction.txt`_

All right. Welcome, everyone. Great to see you. Thank you for joining us today. Really nice to see some friends on here and some new faces. We'll get into the presentation in just a second. We'll spend a lot of time in the Statsig product poking around and show you how things work. So that's coming up soon. Talk through a little bit of ground rules as we we make sure you get the most out of this. We're gonna move forward today in in one direction through the main presentation, but we ask you to give us your questions to make sure we're answering them live. We're lucky enough to have Tyler. He's a engineer on our enterprise engineering team, the face of our training, a celebrity, and a very knowledgeable such matter expert in all things Statsig, and we'll dive into the product today and and show you how this can be brought to life. I'm Ben. I help lead our account management team. Excited to answer questions for you as we go. We will also record this session, send it to you as a follow-up along with some goodies and resources, including how to find out more information about feature gates, how to send similar recordings and trainings to your team, and how to dive into our docs as a follow-up. With that, let's talk about our agenda. We're gonna be talking about several things in the feature management space. How do we get the right experience to the right people? And that's what we consider targeting rules and using conditions to make sure we're segmenting the groups into the right experiences. We'll talk about how to then run diagnostics, like giving yourself an override experience so you can start to kick the tires and test before we roll out to production. Speaking of rollouts, we've got some new features and capabilities around scheduling and and rolling out features over time. And then we'll get into some really interesting things around turning a feature rollout into an AB test. I'll get out of the way. Tyler, very excited for this session. Thanks again for taking time to guide us through this. It's all yours.

---

## Statsig 1.3 - Overrides

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.3 - Overrides.txt`_

The other thing I'll call out here before we go too much deeper into things as I just delete a few things real quick is it's often the case that you will still want to do, like, even more explicit testing. So it was pretty nice that I'm able to do things and say, like, hey. I want to release this to employees first. But, like, there might even be individual employees that you want to opt in or opt out to this gate where it doesn't necessarily make sense for me to have an individual rule for each one of them. Things would get a little unwieldy if everyone went and added their own rule saying, hey. For my user ID, I want to pass this. And for my user ID, I want to fill this. Overrides are our friend here to add in those, like, individual users. I'll even call out that in your account settings, you can specify your own user ID for in your product to make this really straightforward. And at that point, you actually get this nice little pass my ID or fail my ID so everyone can see who I am in Statsig, this one m three q. When I do these types of things, like, this takes precedence over all the rules that are below, and now I will just explicitly receive that behavior rather than whatever the rules might have specified. There's essentially just a set of rules above saying, are you this ID? If so, pass. But, again, this makes it really straightforward, especially for things like QA teams or development teams to just hop into that variant that makes sense for them. The other thing I'll call out for thinking through, like, reasoning about who is actually receiving these things, who is not receiving these things, is going to be this test gate feature down at the bottom. This is sort of your home to be like, I hypothetically have a user object that I could be initializing with or I could be passing into it. I don't necessarily wanna go through the entire work of starting up my app and going to that exact surface and then seeing if I'm getting that experience or not. I just wanna, like, test out what I would get if I were to check this thing. This test gate is the way to do that. So for instance, again, we added that override for me to say I should pass. I can actually go ahead and plug in my user ID here, and it will evaluate for me, and it will say, hey. I pass. Similarly, if I add another rule down here that says, hey. I want to release this to Canada just for fun there, and we'll do country Canada, something like that. I can take myself out. I am currently failing if I passed in this example user object. If I passed in something like in the US, I would fail too because it's getting that default rule. But if I go ahead and put in Canada, I will pass because I'm in Canada. So this is a really nice way to just sort of sanity check yourself, especially as you get more and more elaborate rules where it's maybe referencing another gate and things along those lines. You can plug in a user object here and validate what you would receive.

---

## Statsig 1.3 - Scheduled rollouts

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.3 - Scheduled rollouts.txt`_

One really cool feature that we have at our disposal is the ability to schedule rollouts where I can say, hey. Right now, you're at zero percent. I want to, in the future, have us go up to five percent in the next fifteen minutes. And then an hour later, I want you to ramp up to ten percent. And you can save this, and then Statsig will sort of automatically ramp up those percentages over time. This lets you do those more gradual rollouts in a way where you are not having to babysit it the entire time. There's also exciting work coming on our end around being able to say, like, and if we regress this metric, and, again, we'll talk more about measurement later on, we should actually go ahead and stop this rollout or potentially even roll back, being able to automate a lot more of these rollouts in a way that's preserving a lot of safety there.

---

## Statsig 1.3 - Targeting rules and conditions

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.3 - Targeting rules and conditions.txt`_

Yeah. Thanks all. Like Ben said, excited to see so many faces, old and new, and excited to be talking about feature gates and sort of how to get the most out of them. We'll also be pretty much entirely in the product itself. So I'll go ahead and hop over there now to one of our demo projects where we can actually sort of see some of these things live. Feature gates are really sort of this, like, most foundational building block that you'll get in Statsig. How do I make sure the right people see the right things? And then we can do really exciting stuff on top of that around what if I give it to some people and not some others? And what if I compare the results across those two, where we actually sort of start doing AB testing? The thing that these are really immediately useful for is how do I turn a feature on and off remotely, quote unquote. This is really, really impactful, especially for folks on mobile teams where you don't necessarily have the most control over your own release cycles. If you have developed a new feature and you realize that new feature is causing crashes, that's sort of devastating. Right? You're like, I can fix this, and then I can go ahead and publish it and wait for the app stores to approve it. And then when the app stores have finally approved it, I can wait for my users to choose to update their apps, and then they will start to get this fix going, which is very painful, I think, especially as a product owner. But I think that's broader than just mobile teams. Right? Everyone has these situations where, like, their push cycles are a little longer than you'd like, especially when something is going sort of horribly wrong. And so in those cases, being able to remotely just be like, let's turn this thing off is really, really nice to have around as sort of a kill switch, so to speak. So in particular, when I'm taking a look at some gate, a lot of times, the first gate that people will start with will actually look something like this, where it's going to just be some rule and we're going to say everyone. And the condition to pass here is that you are anyone, and now I just have a dial that I can turn of do people get back false or do they get back true when they check this gate in code. Already quite quite useful. When I'm ready to turn this thing on, I can go ahead and say everyone should get this. When I want to turn it off, I can go ahead and say no one should get this. This is really handy. We have now divorced when a future goes live from our actual ability to push that code. We can essentially turn off code remotely when it makes sense to do so. So this alone already really, really handy. But there's probably lots of situations where you're, like, wish you had a slightly finer grained comb to work with, so to speak, rather than being like, everyone gets this thing or no one gets this thing. What if I, like, wanted to get a little more targeted with that? Then that's when we'll start, like, talking in-depth about these criteria, about these rules. So every gate in stat sig is comprised of a series of rules. Each of those rules is defining, a, some group of people, and, b, whether or not they showed or shouldn't get that thing. So for instance, I might have something like this where I have some country I want to turn this thing on for, so I want to turn it on for users in the US. And then I might also want to turn it off for users in Canada. So I might say US users and Canada users. And for users in Canada, we are not ready to roll out there yet. And I will go ahead and say it is off for users in Canada. None of those users pass, and it is on for users in the US. And with that, I've already gotten to this pretty advanced state of the world where I can target an individual country and turn things on or off for those users. This could be I realized I needed to have French translations available in my app to feel comfortable releasing this feature to Canada. All of those sorts of scenarios are pretty common where it's just like, yeah. This feature is not yet ready for release here, but it is ready for release in these places. Let's actually take advantage of that. And the cool thing is that if you're using one of our client SDKs in particular, country is something we can, generally speaking, auto infer. There's actually a lot of things about your users we can auto infer if you're using our client SDKs where it's actually running on their device because we can do things like say, hey. What operating system is this? What device model is this? Things along those lines where we're targeting only release to Android users. Or maybe we have discovered that big bug and we want to say, hey. If you are an Android user, so operating system is Android, Specifically, if you're an Android user who is on an older version of our app, so I might say something like less than this version. If you're an Android user who's on something less than four point o point o, then those are the types of people we want to turn this off for. And so, again, this allows us to do those really targeted things where maybe I have actually released that fix to the app, but it just takes a while for people to download app version four point o point o. All of this is, like, the sort of building blocks we have at our disposal when we're talking about gates. They're, again, comprised of these series of rules that are actually arranged in this if, else if format. That is, like, a rather critical piece that a lot of people will sometimes miss a little bit. When we find the first rule that your given user is going to pass for, at that point, we will say, like, okay. Let's decide if you pass fail here and now based on this pass and based on this fail. So in this case, a hundred percent of users will fail if they meet these set of criteria. For these users in Canada, we could go ahead and release this feature to them, but it will only be these users in Canada who were not on Android less than four point o point o because if they were, they would have already met this criteria and failed. So it really is a true else if in all of these scenarios, something to keep in mind. So, again, this is sort of like building blocks that allow us to get increasingly complex with these things. So far, we've talked a lot about these things that we can auto infer if you're using our client SDKs. Two natural questions that people might have in response to that are, a, what if I'm not using a client SDK because I'm using you server side? And b, what if I have something else I care about that you're not able to auto infer? For all of these, the sort of key piece of the puzzle, so to speak, is going to be what we're passing into our user object. So when we initialize the Static SDK on client devices, one of the fields you'll pass into that is that user object where you're giving us all of this context about the user, whether that's what locale they have, if they are a premium subscriber, things like that. And similarly, when you're calling Checkgate on server SDKs, you'll be passing in that user object there as well. Again, you can include whatever context about the user makes sense. And so one of the criteria that we actually have access to here rather than things like country and things that we might auto infer is there is actually this custom field section where you can bring to the table sort of anything you might know about the user. I can go ahead and say, like, in addition to all of these things, I might actually have a subscriber tier as a field that I pass in, and I might wanna say premium users get this feature. Nonpremium users don't get this feature. And, again, this can be useful for either saying I want to only give this thing to premium users and or maybe it's a risky or new feature that I want to make sure I'm able to test out on a broader audience before I start rolling it out to the folks who might be a little more sensitive to things like that. These are sort of all things that we're considering at Statsig when we're rolling out our own features. We know there's some set of things where it's like, this is a fairly minor tweak, and we feel very comfortable releasing it broadly. There's also things where it's like, we want to be able to gauge how this is impacting people's understanding of the product to make sure that we are right in our hypotheses that these make things better. So it might make sense to give things to certain cohorts and not to others. So criteria are sort of your keys to the kingdom and being able to actually make sure we're targeting the right sets of people, things like that. The other one that I'll call out here is something that gets us really, really advanced. That's the ability to say, do you pass some other gate? In particular, people will often do these types of things where they either say, I have a passive target gate or a segment, both sort of just ways to define audiences, and say, I keep finding that every gate I create, I wind up doing this thing where the first thing I do is I say, if you are an employee because this is going to be on my employee rule, the very first thing I do is say, employees get this feature. No one else does. So something like this, for instance, employees are the only ones getting this feature. No one else is getting it because there is this default fail. This allows me to do these, like, very targeted rollouts to folks in a way that I don't have to redefine every single time what it means to be an employee. I can have one gate or one segment that says all of my definition for employee where maybe it's like, oh, I'm checking if your email address ends in the right suffix, things along those lines that can be reused across things. The other cool thing that we get out of this is we actually get to do things and say, hey. This feature is part of a broader feature release. You shouldn't actually be eligible for this one unless you pass this other gate. So for instance, maybe our new add to cart flow should only be available to people who are already passing whatever criteria are part of our new ranking algorithm. So passes target gate and its counterpart fails target gate are really powerful ways to target exactly the set of users you want to release something to given all of the other stuff people are doing in Statsig. How we, like, are able to construct these audiences. And, again, these audiences are comprised of multiple rules. Those rules are LCF'd together. Multiple criteria within a rule are ANDed together, and then you can essentially get ORs by going the route of sort of composing those gates together. The other thing I'll call out really quickly is just like, how do I actually use this thing in code? One really nice feature that we have is this code snippet up in the top right, where we'll actually show you what it looks like to use this in code. And all of our SDKs are available here with some code snippets of what this looks like. And it looks really straightforward, particularly once you've got this dot sig SDK initialized. It really does boil down to just this check gate call. And for client SDKs where there's only one user on a device at a time, we sort of implicitly are passing in that current user to this check gate call. So you'll then notice, for instance, on the server SDKs that you actually do pass in a user. But, again, it really is a very simple check gate call. The other minor callout I'll give here is that we use this identifier for the gate, which will be based on but not necessarily exactly the same as your gate name that you created in Statsig. In particular, we created this one called front end two step add to cart where it was spaced and with capital letters. We have this gate ID that's going to be lowercased with underscores separating, but you can also copy that here. Or, again, the code snippet will have it already in that format as well. So these are really, really simple to use in code, and they just return a Boolean. There's also tons of sort of work and thinking we've done in terms of making sure that these don't actually incur a network call. They are able to just return a boolean there and then. There is no round trip associated within an individual check gate call or use gate as the case may be for people using the React Hooks. For the client SDKs, we send down all of that info in advance so that we can just look it up in a dictionary essentially. For the server SDKs, it evaluates it locally on your server. Again, because it could be those multiple users that are we have to check, so we don't wanna be able to send down a dictionary for every possible user. But, again, no network call required for an individual check gate call, something people will often get a little confused by.

---

## Statsig 1.3 - Turning gates into A_B tests

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.3 - Turning gates into A_B tests.txt`_

The other thing that we generally care about with these, is this feature good? Is this change good? And that definition of good is probably gonna be pretty dependent on your actual business metrics or your performance metrics, things along those lines. And that's where turning these into AB tests is going to come into play. Up top here, monitoring metrics, you're able to say which metrics you actually care about, including using tags. So I could grab or inform metrics, things like that. Grab all of the relevant metrics via a tag and or include individual metrics that I want to be keeping an eye on. And these metrics are what we'll monitor for any scenario where there is sort of an AB test to be had. In particular for an AB test, we want control and test to be otherwise homogenous. Right? We don't, for instance, wanna say, wow, your users are taking way more actions. But the reason they're taking way more actions is because test is everyone on iOS and controls everyone on Android, and your iOS users are more engaged. We want it to be an otherwise fair fight. We want it to be that the difference between control and test is that they passed or failed this gate. Every individual rule is a potential AB test sort of all by itself, quote, unquote. Again, like, we don't want it to be that this gate is measuring English locale because twenty percent of English are passing, but then zero percent of the rest of world are passing. Like, that's more showing the impact of being in an English speaking country on your product than it is the impact of your change on your product. So each of these will be its own AB test where we have a twenty percent test group and an eighty percent control group, and I can click here to go to results and actually see what this is doing for that audience. And so when I take a look at one of these, I actually get this pulse view. This is the same pulse view that we'll use for purposes of our experiments. This is sort of our consistent way of showing results where we are showing for each metric that you have, how is test performing relative to your control? In this case, how is pass performing relative to false? Does being in pass increase some metric or does it decrease a metric or is it sort of indeterminate because there's just not enough data? For all of these, these are representing confidence intervals. This is showing a range of, like, reasonable things to say the outcome is. There's more data science approved definitions where you're like, hey. The true underlying impact of this is within this range ninety five percent of the time if you ran this thing a hundred times in a hundred parallel universes. I like to think of this as what should I think is a range of reasonable or likely outcomes. And so if that range includes zero percent, we would say it's, like, reasonable to say that being in test was bad for this, and it was reasonable to say it was good for this. So it's inconclusive. It's not statistically significant. It's not stat sick. That's where the name comes from. If you hover over any of these, you can get some extra, like, info on what we're actually taking a look at here. In particular, you can see, a, how many users were in each of these groups and also the total value for that metric for those groups, which, of course, gives us a mean, and then we are comparing that mean. The fact that we are comparing that mean is something that trips people up in particular, like, looking at a gate like this. This is a twenty eighty gate or roughly a twenty eighty gate. So we don't wanna say that the eighty percent group is four times better than the twenty percent group. So we normalize by the number of users in it for almost all metrics. There's a few exceptions, but they will call that out, and these numbers will be different than those cumulative. View here is showing that cumulative chart of how many users have been ever in test and in control for that rule, how many have failed or how many have passed for that rule, how many unique users, how many unique of this ID type that we're taking a look at. One thing I'll also call out is that for certain cases, you may see this not in analysis group. For certain cases, we actually go ahead and balance the size of our analysis groups. We want to be able to compare twenty percent to twenty percent. There's some nice wins that you get in terms of false positive rate from doing so. So you might notice that this not in analysis group exists and rather this, like, fail analyze group and this pass analyze group wind up being the same number and then the rest divert over to here. Just calling that out if you notice it in your charts. All it takes to take one of these gates and turn it from being a on off switch or a targeted ability to slowly release something on or off is just having, a, some metrics getting computed in stat sync for that ID type, and, b, just choosing something that's not zero percent or not twenty percent here for production traffic.

---

## Statsig 1.3 - User identifiers

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.3 - User identifiers.txt`_

The final note I'll give here, we've been talking a lot about this, like, hundred percent and zero percent. And a reasonable question that people tend to have is a hundred percent of what and zero percent of what. The hundred percent and zero percent here is going to be based on this ID type that we're sending over on this side. This is your way to identify a user. One user object can have multiple identifiers present in it, and this is telling us which one of those to use for evaluating this gate. So when I am clicking around in Statsig right now, there's actually four different things identifying me. In particular, I am on this Chrome browser, so I will have a stable ID associated with me. That stable ID is just an device level identifier that we will auto generate and throw in local storage for our client SDKs as just a way to, like, have something to identify them with. So that will be stable ID. We also have me logged into Statsig right now. I'm actually logged in as Tyler. So there is a user ID. We saw that one earlier when I was overriding myself to make sure I was getting that experience. And then furthermore, this is actually like we're in our demo project and that demo project is in a demo organization. So when we at Statsig are thinking about rolling out a feature, particularly when we're doing things that are not zero percent and not one hundred percent, it becomes a really interesting question when I do have those types of situations where it is something like I'm releasing this to everyone, but maybe I'm not releasing it to all of everyone, I'm releasing it to fifty percent of everyone. That is going to be determined based on this identifier type, that ID type on the right hand side. So in this case, I'm releasing this to fifty percent of user IDs who pass this criteria. So if I do something like this and start entering them in, you'll notice that some of these will pass and some of these will fail. It should be about fifty fifty or rather exactly fifty fifty as I continue to go along. Cool. So that's sort of the fundamentals of a gate. And now we'll start to branch into deeper topics that we have at our disposal to really dial in on what we're able to do with these.

---

## Statsig 1.3 - Wrap up

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.3 - Wrap up.txt`_

That's sort of, like, the deep dive overview of a lot of the tools at our disposal when we're talking about feature gates. They're a really, really powerful tool where there's also a lot of ability to build on top of it, which is really neat. Again, that, like, pure on off switching is kind of just, like, a lifesaver and just extremely nice to have. I know that anytime we are in a stressful situation on our end, we're always very glad when we've put it behind a feature gate because it means we can just turn that thing off immediately and pretty quickly recover from incidents in that regard. But then the ability to, like, have those things where you're making use of those on off switches and be like, okay. Now instead of just turning it on, I'm gonna turn it on for some people randomly and measure that. I actually get product metrics out of that, which is really cool. This is sort of, like, one of our highest velocity ways to really start integrating this stuff into your stack. And, again, lots of teams use this and just move really, really quickly. Tons of learnings out of it. Tons of safety out of it. We're big fans of feature gates here. Thanks all. Thanks for tuning in. Fantastic. Thank you, Tyler, and thank you all for good questions. This hopefully was a very helpful session for you. We will make sure you get the recording to this session afterwards. We will also give you all kinds of documentation on feature gates, which we covered a link to our demo project, how to contact us via our community and all kinds of other helpful resources to help in your further exploration. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you again for joining us. We hope this was helpful, and we hope to see you at another webinar soon.

---

## Statsig 1.4 - Dashboards

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.4 - Dashboards.txt`_

Here, we have dashboards. Dashboards, as you can see, are collections of things we call widgets or charts, and they allow you to kind of, like, paint a picture or tell a story about your product with data. Each of these widgets are made up of one of our five chart types, and those include drill down charts. So these are really great for trend analysis. We'll be going to in them into detail. Funnel charts, these are really great for understanding how people are successfully or not successfully kind of making it through key flows in your product. Retention charts, these help you understand how people are coming back to key moments of your product or coming back to your product generally. User journeys. These are a nice analog to funnels where funnels allow you to have a great understanding of well defined flows. User journeys are really great in helping you discover flows that people take to your product. And then distribution charts. Distribution charts allow you to understand a kind of exploded view of what's going on with certain metrics or values. Instead of just having a a point in time value, it allows you to see the distribution of that value across your user population.

---

## Statsig 1.4 - Distribution

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.4 - Distribution.txt`_

And then the last chart, I'll go over our distribution charts. These are great for kind of understanding the full breadth of how a value's shape really is formed. So you can essentially view histograms of things like event frequency, how often people are doing some event, event property value. So this is gonna help us understand for a given new numeric property value, like up the value of the purchase. Actually, let's go here. So it's just the purchase event. So now we're looking at four purchase events. What's the median value of each of these or not the median, but the histogram of values for all of these purchases? We can see that the p ninety five is all the way up at a hundred and twelve. P seventy five is around fifty bucks, etcetera. And then aggregate property value. And this is for metrics that you have with some numeric property value, what the distribution of that metric is per user. That's been a deep dive into static product analytics. Hope you've learned a lot.

---

## Statsig 1.4 - Funnels

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.4 - Funnels.txt`_

So while Metric Drawdown was really great for helping you understand trends over time, being able to, like, really segment different populations, have a bunch of different views such as tables, line charts, pie charts, even the geo map. Funnels are a less general purpose surface area, and they're really tailored for helping you understand one thing, and that's how are people converting through key workflows. Here, we have a funnel that shows how people are kind of starting with our landing page all the way through a purchase event, and we've defined that as starting with the landing page view and then viewing a product. Because there are multiple ways to view a product in our in our app, we allow you to combine events as well. So we can say, did a product view or did a product details. Next, they add to cart, then they do a checkout, and then they do a purchase event. So we can see the funnel and kind of at each step, some key steps stats about what's happening between that step and the previous one. This is the landing page. This is the product view or product details, add to cart, checkout, and purchase event. And we can see at each step what the overall conversion rate is so far all the way down to the last step. So we have a conversion rate at of one point seven seven percent. But we can also see at each step kind of, like, where are people dropping off the most. Right? So from product view to add to cart, there's a big drop off. And from add to cart to actually checking out and checking out to actually purchasing, we some we see some big drop off. So if this were my product, I would wanna figure out why are people only about ten percent or or so of people who do a checkout event actually going and do a purchase. You can also go and see even more detail at each step in the legend here. So you can by default, these are the ones we show, but you can also look at the number of people converted, the number of people dropped off. And then instead of just looking at the median time so far, looking at the median time from the previous step. And so now we can kind of scroll through and see, okay, at from add to cart to checkout event, the number of people the conversion rate from the previous step is only twenty one percent, which is pretty low. And then from the actual purchase event, the conversion rate from the previous step is only fifteen point eight percent, which is also pretty low. And these are the kind of things that we drill into. We also have several different views in funnels. So this view here is great for kind of, like, understanding very granularly at each step of your funnel what's occurring. If you want to just look at the conversion rate over time, so having a top line view of the entire funnel, how does that conversion rate look as kind of like a trend? You can easily do that here by just changing to the conversion rate over time view, and we can look over any period of days that we see fit. And this what this is showing now is kind of the conversion rate has been hovering at about for this specific funnel at about two percent, one point nine, two percent, over a long time period. And there was a big jump around July sixth where we stopped converting at around one point one and a quarter percent and jumped up to one and kind of a third percent. Another thing that you can do is looking at a histogram of time to convert. This is really useful when you have flows that are very time sensitive and you wanna understand how not just, like, what the median time to convert is, which we always show, but kind of, like, what the breakdown of conversion time looks like. Going back to the main funnel view of kind of a granular stepwise funnel, you can also constrain your funnel in a bunch of different ways. How how long people have to complete the funnel to count as converted, whether or not it's an ordered or unordered funnel. This is this helps you understand. If you just have a funnel that is kind of, I wanna know if people completed these end steps, you can toggle this off to be unordered versus an ordered funnel, which is I wanna know if people completed these end steps in this specific order. You can also look at unique users versus just total conversions. If I go through the funnel with this toggled on three times, I would only count once. If I toggle this off, I would count as three total conversions, and kind of these numbers would go up. And then daily aggregation, this lets us know if we can if we should aggregate at the daily level versus just kind of over this entire time range. Just like in Drill Down, you can compare different groups against each other. So we can look at this cut funnel split out by country to see if that's impacting the conversion rate or not or see if there are different conversion rates depending on if you come from the US, Mexico, India, or Canada. And it looks like not quite the case. But like I said, in the drill down view, because we are kind of a full platform, you can do group buys on things like feature gates and experiments as well. So looking at this feature gate, we can now see, okay, for the set of people who have the new feature and the set of people who don't, what does the conversion rate look like? And what makes this feature really powerful is that when you combine it with funnels, not only do you see the exact conversion rate, but you can also you also have an opportunity to see exactly where in the flow this feature is having the most impact. Right? So, obviously, we care about the overall conversion rate for purchase events, but we also it it would be interesting to know, okay, like, is having this new two step add to cart having the most effect on overall conversion rates. You can also do the same thing with things like experiments, holdouts, and segments. Another cool feature we just launched are conversion drivers. Often when you're looking at a funnel, one of the things that you care the most about is what's leading to outsized conversion or drop off in my funnel. And the way that people would do that normally is kind of just grouping by a bunch of different things and trying to figure out, okay, is there some factor, some property that leads to people converting or dropping off at a higher rate? And we wanted to make that easier, so we added a new feature called conversion drivers. You click here. And what this does is we do a lot of that in the background for you, and it helps you understand, okay, what are the factors that are leading to outsized conversion or outsized drop off? We're honest with you. When there are no drivers that are leading to outsized conversion, we just say no drivers found. But here, we're we see that there are some things that are leading to more pronounced drop off. One nice thing is that you can dig in and see kind of, like, okay, what's the correlate coefficient correlation or the co the correlation coefficient. Right now, this actually is a very weak correlation. You can kind of see this matrix of kind of four people who had this property and people who didn't. What is their, relative drop off in conversion rates? And when this is obviously demo data, so maybe not interesting. But on real data, it's often this saves a lot of time in trying to under understand why people are dropping off and converting because we will just do that in the background for you. And then once you have kind of, like, you're digging in, you can just click one button and then we'll apply that group by, and you can see, okay, what is this does this actually pan out? Does Mexico actually have a lower conversion rate? And, yeah, we can see that very slightly. They do. The other things that you can do in funnels are kind of we have this intuition that initial paths to a journey may be different than or materially different than kinda subsequent ones. So you can filter to the first time someone has done an event and build a funnel based off of that instead of just kind of grouping all journeys together. And then, also, you can compare like you can in at a step by step basis what this funnel looks like one day ago, seven days ago, or some other period ago. For companies that have a lot of events and you wanna speed up your funnel query, you can apply sampling. This is really useful, especially in funnels, because you still get the directionally correct answer without having to crunch through a hundred percent of the data, and it's just a really useful way in of speeding up your analysis. You can also filter bot data and kind of, like, only show legend, which is really useful for adding to a dashboard.

---

## Statsig 1.4 - Metric Drilldown

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.4 - Metric Drilldown.txt`_

We're gonna start with Jotun charts. So the key components of a Jotun chart are obviously the chart, the legend, and then the left row, which we call the query builder. The query builder allows you to select an event or metric. So in this case, we select the purchase event. And then also choose aggregations. So aggregations allow you to kind of, on the fly, change what your what question you're asking and what kind of answer you're gonna get. Right? So in this case, we are looking at purchase events, and I'll get rid of this for now. Looking at the purchase events that have occurred in the product over the last thirty days, you can quickly change the time range to, say, ninety days, and we're getting a count of the purchase events. And so this is just saying, hey. For every time we see a purchase event, count one and increment. Right? So this says we have we saw six point six seven thousand purchase events on July thirteenth, and we could generally see the trend is ticking upwards. What's nice about a product analytics product is that it allows you to kind of extend common questions that you might have about your product or how users are using your product in really nice, interesting, and ad hoc ways. So now if I want to see the number of unique people purchasing, I can simply switch to that here by changing the aggregation from counts to uniques. I could also see things like counts per user, unique values of some property, the sum of some numeric property, the average of some numeric property value, and the percentile of some numeric property value. And I'll go and teach you those briefly soon. So let's first look at uniques. So now we're looking at the unique number of individual user IDs that we saw do a purchase event over this time period. But I could also switch that. And since our the aggregation is daily, this is per day, what is the unique, number of unique purchasers. I can also switch that to answer the question how many weekly unique users are doing this or how many monthly unique users are doing that simply by double clicking here. And now what I'm looking at is each day over the last seven days, because we chose weekly active users, how many unique weekly purchasers did we see over that trailing seven day period? We could also do the same thing for something like monthly. And now we're asking and answering a completely different question. Some of the other aggregations we have are counts per user. So this is helping answering the question, how many times did a user do this event? The ave or the average or whatever percentile you choose, user do this per event over this time period. So right now, we're looking at the average count per user, and we can see that the average user who did the event at least once did it about one point o four five times. But you can switch that to say, okay. What about the p ninety ninth user? How often are they doing purchase events? About two. And we can do this for, say, like, the median as well. And the median is one across this entire time range. We can also do things like the sum of property values on this purchase event. So an event can be thought of as kind of some activity that's happening within your app. And then you can also supply context about that activity. And those, you can think of as the properties that we have here. So on the purchase event event, one of the piece of context that we always provide is the value of that purchase, and we log that in the value property. And I can do a sum of the value property over time, and we can see, hey. We're making about two hundred and fifty thousand dollars a day in revenue by summing the purchase event totals. If we wanted to see what the average purchase event looks like, we can do that by switching to the average aggregation, about thirty eight dollars. And then we can also do something like the p median or, let's say, p ninety purchase event value. And that looks to be much higher in the seventy nine, eighty dollar range. If we go back to the average purchase event value, this is a little jumps up and down. Some things that we can do to kinda make this chart read a little better is we can one, I noticed right now we're not showing the y axis starting at zero. That's a preference that we've kind of been opinionated about. We allow you to toggle that to start at zero, which changes how the chart reads a bunch. But even if it doesn't start at zero, we can smooth things out by doing things like providing a rolling average or rolling sum. And this lets you kind of smooth out the data over some number of data points. Generally, we use data points that are multiples of seven to kinda get away from any weekly seasonality. That way, you might see in the product. So looking at over twenty eight days or roughly four weeks, this is what the rolling average looks like. Now let's go back to just looking at counts. Here, you can also do a couple things like compare the value to some period ago. So if we wanna know, like, hey. Is what does the count of purchase events look like compared to a week ago or twenty eight days ago or my favorite, just the last period? So it takes this time range engine just shows you what the period before looks like as well. You can see that purchase events were much lower ninety days ago than they are now, which helps us confirm that things are trending up. Another great thing that you could do here is right now we're kind of comparing them as separate series. But if you just wanna know the percent difference between the two things that you're comparing, you can click this view. And now what we're looking at is saying, okay. Compared to each day a period ago, what is the percent difference? And you can see that that, generally, the percent difference is much greater over the last ninety days than it was over the previous ninety days, and we can tell you by exactly what amount. Another thing that you can do is break down any event so that you can compare kind of different groups or different context against each other. So, for example, we log country as an interesting context in all the purchase events, and we can go and see what the count of PURCH event looks like split out by each country. Notice that we have some events that are coming up with an empty country field, and I just wanna exclude that so I can click that here. And what that does is just add that filter. So add a filter of country and says none of empty and excludes that here. So I'm only looking now at the countries or the participants with a valid country logged on it. But by grouping this, we can now directly compare different the the amount of purchase events across these different groups. If that was OS, we can also do that as well. And then we can also see how many how many purchase events different products are because for each purchase event, we're logging in the product, and we can do that here just as quickly. So this is a messy view because we have a ton of purchase events. We're we have twenty five series here, and we have all all these products. To make this easier to understand, you can switch views. Right? So we have a bunch of different views. A stacked line might be useful here because then it shows you each series as a a proportional width of the total. But you can also do things like stacked bars and then maybe more appsly things like a table view. This table view now is looking at the total purchase events across this entire period. It is a cumulative view, and it's a lot more readable now as a table as compared to twenty five series on top of each other. If we did it once the line chart view, though, we can make this more manageable by scoping it down to maybe the top five products and very easily seeing that here and kinda being able to highlight them separately. Another great thing that we do in Static is because we are all in one platform. We don't limit you to just being able to segment by things like property. You can also do things like segment by folks in a feature gate, experiment, or hold out group. So now we'll look at purchase events split out by folks who have this new feature gate, and folks who don't have it. So false and true. People who have it, there are a lot more purchasers than people who don't. But maybe we wanna actually we haven't rolled it out quite evenly. So to adjust for that, you might wanna do something like count per user to see how the purchasers are if having the new feature changes how people are person. One other thing that you can do is filter to interesting cohorts. So sometimes you just want to focus your analysis to people with certain properties or demographics. You can do that. So if I wanna filter my analysis to just Android or iOS users, I can do that very easily. And another interesting thing that you could do is see exactly what people are doing when they do a purchase event, and we call it session streams. So this allows you to do something like click select a a a certain point of time and then view session streams that included this event. A session stream is just a series of events that people do while using your product. A session is defined as thirty minutes of activity or activity with no more than thirty minutes of inactivity. So we can now see all of the events that happened in this session that led to the purchase, and we can jump to different users. So these are all users on the left, and see the see what they are typically doing as they get to this purchase event event. This is really useful for debugging when you think people are going to kind of go down one path and they end up doing something else. Or if you're seeing, like, a big spike in some error event, you can see a lot of what people were doing right before that thing started happening. The last thing I'll get into on metric drawdown are cohorts. Cohorts allow you to define groups. It allows you to group your users by behavior instead of just properties, but you can also use properties as well. So you can define actually, let's go to a really predefined cohort. Let's grab something like our power users or our yeah. And we can go and look at the actual definition of a cohort. So this behavior for this one is folks who have done a product view in the last thirty days, but did product views zero times in the thirty days ending thirty days ago. So these are folks that we're calling resurrected because they weren't active before, and all of a sudden, now that they're active again. You can also add things like filters on this. So you can scope this to just folks on Android or iOS to your heart's content. You can combine events like we have here. It doesn't have to be scoped to just one event. And you can select whether or not they should meet all the criteria or any of the criteria, essentially an and versus no or. Adding one one cohort filters to that set of people, and then adding a second cohort. Let's do casual users, then compares, those users those two cohorts against each other. And and a cohort that you define in one service area can be used in another, and this is a great segue into funnels.

---

## Statsig 1.4 - Product Analytics - Introduction

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.4 - Product Analytics - Introduction.txt`_

Hi. My name is Akeen. I'm a product manager here at Statsig. And today, I will be doing a deep dive into, our product analytics product. So a lot of people know Statsig for their feature management or feature management and experimentation products, but we also have a really robust analytics offering. And that lives in this tab here. It gives you access to things like metric explorer, which I'll be going over a little bit. Logs Explorer, which is great for kind of infra debugging use cases. Dashboards, which are great for kind of collecting a bunch of insights and reporting out. And then top line alerts, which are great for kind of, like, keeping you abreast of any changes or things that you need to pay attention to in your product.

---

## Statsig 1.4 - Retention

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.4 - Retention.txt`_

Retention charts help you understand how kind of sticky a moment or your product is generally. And it does this by calculating for the set of people who do your start event, what percent of them over different intervals come back into the return event. So we're interested in people who do the landing page view, kind of come to our service. How often are do they come back and do a purchase? Funnel or retention charts can be looked at over different time periods. So daily retention, weekly retention, or monthly retention. We're looking at weekly retention because we don't expect purchasing from our our store to be something that happens at a daily cadence, but we expect it to be done more than, say, monthly. And so we can see what the retention looks like over time. We have this broken down by a feature gate called new search algorithm, and kind of gonna keep harping on this because we're one connected platform. You can do things like understand what retention looks like for features that you've rolled out for folks who have it and don't. And you can do this in a pretty granular way as well so we can see the kind of overall retention for each week. But you can also see the triangle chart for each of these. Right now, I'll switch to only showing a legend. And you can see the triangle chart for each of the different groups. So folks who have the new feature or the new search algorithm, folks who don't, you can see that the retention is generally higher for the people who do, which is great news for us. And then once again, you can look at things in slightly different ways. So we have the retention curve, but we also let you see that retention change over time instead of kind of looking at it the week by week basis.

---

## Statsig 1.4 - User Journeys

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 1.4 - User Journeys.txt`_

Next up is user journeys. User journeys are great for understanding how people arrive at a specific moment in your product flow or where people go from a specific moment in your product flow. And you can do this by selecting the event of interest, so that moment that you care about, and then either going stepwise out from it, which shows you where people go after, or going stepwise in the opposite direction that shows you what people are doing on the way to that moment in your product flow. Right now, we have this showing that the five events that kind of, like, are the the top five events in each step of the journey, but you can quickly change this. And then we also allow you to either hide specific events or only show specific events. And this just helps for denoising your user flow. And then collapsing events, if you have product view type things, here, you can because an event is something that repeats a lot, you can just click collapse collapse repeated events, and then it'll kind of collapse the the repeated events that happen and then show you some distinct event that happens instead. You can also split your journey out by some property. So if your journey was on page views, you can split it up by URLs, and then you could also have exclusion events as well.

---
