# Course 2: Statsig 101 — Combined Lesson Captions

_Combined caption text from all 6 lessons in this course. Original individual caption files remain at `data/raw/captions/` for granular citation use by the embedded skills (statsig-ask, statsig-quiz, etc.). This combined file exists primarily for NotebookLM ingestion under its 50-source cap._

---

## Statsig 2.1 - Welcome to Statsig 101

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 2.1 - Welcome to Statsig 101.txt`_

Hi, and welcome to Staatsig University. I'm Julie from Staatsig, and you're in our Staatsig one zero one course. We're hoping to give you everything you need to know to get started with Staatsig. So we'll show you in this course how to get set up. We'll give you an overview of all of our core products. And then we'll show you how to put it all together. We hope you find this course helpful. And we're so glad you're here. So let's dive in.

---

## Statsig 2.2 - Setting up Statsig's SDKs

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 2.2 - Setting up Statsig's SDKs.txt`_

Hey, everyone. I'm Brock, and I'm a product manager on the SDKs team here at Statsig. Today, we're gonna talk about how to get set up with Statsig. So today, we're gonna talk through how to get started with Statsig and in particular, how to get started with Statsig's SDKs. So here's a quick agenda for what we'll cover. This will be in a couple big sections. The first is for everyone using Static. So this is if you're going to be implementing individual experiments or feature gates, if you're a developer or something like that. But then we'll also look at a few things you should be thinking about if you're setting up Static for the first time. So, for your team or for your company, there's a couple other decisions you're gonna wanna make up front. Alright. So, a few things that are important for everyone to understand. Maybe the most important one is where experiment values come from. Obviously, you create experiments on the static console, but then when they're actually running in your code, we have to pull down those experiments somehow. There's misconceptions that when you check a feature flag, that's actually doing a network request. It's not the case with Statsig s Statsig SDKs. We'll get to exactly why that is and what happens instead in in a couple minutes. I'll go through general SDK usage just so can kind of understand what everything looks like. And then the last thing I'll talk about is debugging the SDK. There can be a few cases in which things go wrong, and it'll be helpful to know the tools you have at your disposal to to debug. Alright. So we're gonna talk about where experiment values come from in both the server side and the client side. And we're starting with server here. There's a separate decision you're gonna make. We'll talk about later on if you should use server SDKs or client SDKs or both. In a large number of situations, you'll end up using both, so this should be useful for just about everyone. But a couple things I wanna cover here. You'll see I have this nice little diagram in the middle. What it's showing is how you initialize the Statsig SDK and pull down the values for your project. So when you set up in your code, the server SDK, you'll be calling something simple like Statsig creating a Statsig instance and adding a key to it so that it has access to your project. And then you'll be calling something like Statsig dot initialize. When you call Statsig dot initialize, it's going to do this little section I have in the middle of the sequence diagram where it initializes and pulls down those configuration values. And more or less, those configuration values will represent everything that exists in your project. That means that your code now, the the sort of scope of that memory where you called stats dot initialize, understands everything that happens in your project, and so it can evaluate any gate, any experiment, any dynamic config layer, etcetera, synchronously without ever making a network request. This it's important to understand that this is supposed to be a secure environment because you're downloading that whole rule set. Right? Like, if you were launching a new feature or something like that, you name your experiment, like, new big feature launch, You might not want people to be able to see that. You don't want your competitors to see that, etcetera. So that's why your server keys are secret, are private, and why the expectation is that these environments are are private and secure. That's also why we we'll talk about it in a second, but we don't just send down all of these values to client SDKs. We evaluate that a little bit differently. The last thing I'll call out on this is you'll see those little dotted lines I have at the bottom of the sequence diagram. Your server SDKs will stay constantly up to date with configurations in your project by polling on a ten second interval to pull down that rule set again. This means that those changes are not instantaneous, but they're they're very fast and the server SDK will will always be in sync. That's the expectation you should have. Also, I do have this little sample JSON on the right hand side here that just shows, like, generally what you might expect that configuration file to look like. You won't see this a lot. This isn't really exposed to you very often, but it can be kinda helpful to understand what's actually going on. And the key thing, which is that your server SDKs understand your whole project, and so they don't need to make network requests to evaluate anything. We've got a whole load of server SDKs that I have listed there. Node, Python, Go, all the way to Elixir and Rust and Edge SDKs. Okay. So client SDKs. Client SDKs are a little bit different in that they're presumed to not be private environments. And because of that, we only want to pass back values for a single user, for the user that you're dealing with in that moment to your client side code. So, you know, if you think about server SDKs as being like a node server, web server, or something like that, client side SDKs are like client side JavaScript or like React code that runs on the client side or an iOS or Android app. The the data that is held in those is presumed to be accessible by anybody. And, the servers that we expose to get these values to are are not private. So we implement, like, additional sort of security here to mean that you can only find the values for one individual user. It's much more secure than passing back that whole rule set to the client side, which which some experimentation platforms do, but we don't we don't think is a good practice. So, what this means is that initialize call that you do, you'll see this is slightly different than the server side in that that initialize call actually takes a user object. So, you hand that user object to the server and it passes you back all of those values for that individual user. Just like the server side, this means that the client now has all the evaluations for that project, for that user. So every evaluation you do, every check gate, every get experiment, etcetera, those are all done synchronously. They don't require a network request. Once again, the big difference is just that you're getting it for an individual user in this case. Because of that, when the user object changes, you do have to go back to the server and get new values. In most SDKs, this is implemented as a function called update user or update async, the asynchronous function. And that just goes to the server and gets new values for whatever user object you pass in there. Lastly, I have this once again, this little example JSON object. You'll see that in this case, instead of having, like, a full description of the rules that the code should be executing, like, you know, for example, in your project, might have, like, give users in the United States this value and roll out to twenty percent of users in Canada. The server SDK, the payload would actually have all those rules in it. Right? Because it needs to be able to evaluate that for every single user. The client SDK doesn't have that because it gets evaluated for that user and passed back. Last conceptual point I want to touch on in where experiment values come from is sometimes folks are confused. If a user is given, you know, you you check an experiment for a particular user, user one, two, three, and they're given the test group on the server. How can I be sure that they're also gonna be given the test group on the client? The way that works is it's deterministic hashing function on their ID type that you're using in that experiment that guarantees that they'll be given the same. I won't get into too much nitty gritty details there, but that's what you should understand is as long as you have the same user object, evaluation is guaranteed to be the same on client side, on server side, over time, on any different SDK. That's that's one of our promises. So you don't have to worry about, like, maintaining state across different SDKs. Alright. I wanted to touch on a couple experiments that it's easy to make in these situations that you'll surely encounter if you're implementing Statsig for long enough. Probably the most common one we see, and I would say this is especially common on the client side, is accidentally trying to get an experiment or check a gate or something like that when initialization hasn't happened yet or hasn't completed yet. This one can be tricky because we have some fallback mechanisms in place that will help you out if you do this. We will cache their values from the last time they check from the server sorry, they initialize from the server. But those can be imperfect. Right? Like you might have changed your configurations and things like that. So, this can definitely create problems where you start seeing evaluations that don't totally make sense. We try to protect against this, but in the absolute worst cases, you can see users that will see one variant, like their feature flag isn't rolled out to them yet, and then right after that, they could see that it is rolled out to that to them again. If you like, you know, check a gate and then fire off an initialized call and then check that gate again right after, and the latest values have something different for that user. So this is not desirable. We have some recommendations on how to solve for this. We call this deciding what your initialization strategy is gonna be. There are a few different ones you can do with different trade offs. Obviously, one of the downsides of just, like, waiting for the initialized call is you build in a little bit of latency. So that's not always perfect, but a lot of folks choose to do that as the the best option that guarantees proper experiment values. There's also some other interesting ones like boot strapping, which can reduce that latency but still guarantee exact values, perfect values. So I'd encourage you to visit our docs to read up more on that or reach out to us in Slack. A couple other issues that arise pretty often. If you try to do one of those more advanced methods that I just brought up, there are a few pitfalls you can run into. Bootstrapping is a really common one. People love to do bootstrapping because of the benefits it has. But if you fall into some traps with it, changing the user object between when you bootstrap, when you get values, things like that, it can it can become frustrating because things won't seem quite right. I'd encourage you to reach out to us in Slack as well if you encounter that one. We can definitely help. The last one I wanted to call out, which is is somewhat common, is if you are using our client SDKs and you initialize the SDK, and then you maybe have, like, a long lived instance of your client code, like a browser tab that's open for a very long time or something like that, we will not automatically refresh those values. We don't wanna do that because we don't want, like, your users' experiences to change, like, randomly. It's not desirable. So we leave it up to you to call that update user function. It is somewhat common that if you just don't call that very much, you could land with out of date values from some users. It's not a disaster. Usually, it just means, like, your feature rollouts take a little bit longer than you thought because not everyone gets up to date values right away, but it's something that's worth thinking about and that can definitely confuse you your first time using Static. Quickly, wanted to cover usage. So installing the Static SDKs, like I said, we have SDKs for a whole load of server and client languages, and most of them are available in sort of the the standard package managers. So it's just as simple as NPM install, static node, or static JS client. And then in your code, you're really just calling these like, you're creating an instance of Static and then you're initializing, and then you're checking the feature gates or something like that. One of the things I wanted to call out here is we talked about how the user object is used in initialize in client SDKs, and it's not used in initializing server SDKs. But obviously, you're still evaluating a gate for a particular user in server SDKs. So you see that user object is actually required in those checks. Right? So you'll see that in these these couple server SDKs, Node and Python, you have to pass that user object into the CheckGate or the GetExperiment function, whereas in the others, it's passed actually into the initialization function. Yeah. And so, of course, all these on the right hand side are asynchronous under the hood or sorry, synchronous under the hood. But the top two are actually doing the evaluation. They're actually like, give me that user. I'll go through all the rules. I'll execute the hashing function to do randomization if I need to. And then they're spinning the value out. Whereas the bottom three, which are preinitialized SDKs, they're actually just searching for the value because it's already been been calculated for that user. So they just need to find it for that particular feature gate where find it in memory. Awesome. So I want to quickly touch on the debugging tools you have that you can use when something goes wrong. One is because Statsig is a full platform for this type of stuff, we do have some really helpful tools in the console. So we have experiment and feature gate health checks. They'll tell you if something is clearly wrong that it well, like I said, because this is an integrated platform, one of the really nice things is we have a full integration between our SDKs and the console. So the SDKs can tell the console, hey, something's not quite right with this one. Point the user in the direction of investigating x y zed. So, you might get a health check that's like, you know, you don't have the right unit, you don't have the proper ID types on this user, so experiment analysis isn't gonna work. Or one you see in experiments is sample ratio mismatch. That's very common and and we can also check for that. Another one we have is the log stream, which is basically just like a full list of experiment or feature gate checks as they're happening. We just record those for you in the Statsig console so you can click through them and understand what's happening in each check, filter it for a particular user, make sure their experience is staying consistent, all those sorts of things. The last one I want to touch on was the evaluation reason logs. That's that chart you're seeing back here with the blue and green. Evaluation reasons in Statsig tell you where the data came from that your experiment or feature gate checks are happening on. So we can tell you, hey, these values came from the network. That's the happy path. That's the normal path is you just initialize. That's where we got these values from. But we can also tell you, hey, we got these values from the cache. We fell back on the caching layer because you forgot to call initialize before you check the gate. So we'll call those things out to you when they happen with those evaluation reasons. Outside of the console, there's also some debugging tools you have in the SDK. They expose similar information quite honestly, but you can always be logging those things as you're stepping through your code and they'll tell you exactly what's happening, which is really nice. And then also we have, like, logs that our SDK actually produces and a log level that you can customize to say if you just like warnings or you'd like errors to be flagged, things like that. So, yeah, some of the tools you have to debug the SDK when something goes wrong. Okay. Quickly, I wanted to talk about if you're the first person setting up Statsig for your team. There are some things you should be thinking through that one thing I also just wanted to call out is congrats. It's a pretty cool place to be in. Championing an experimentation program is a really cool place to be in a company. So we're gonna try to make this easy on you, I I hope it goes well. There's a few decisions you need to make, and then we'll talk about some implementation points as well. One is choosing cloud or warehouse native. You might have already chose that if you did a proof of concept with Statsig. Also, you wanna look at if you're using client side or server side SDKs or both. And then also talking about how you get your business metrics, the sort of core important metrics into Statsig. Next, actually implementing, choose your initialization strategy, and then set up your workspace. Alright. So, cloud or warehouse native. If you already have a mature warehouse setup that has like all your metrics ready to go in it, it's likely you will want to use those in experiment analysis and you should probably go straight to a warehouse native approach with Statsig. That's what we usually recommend. But there are situations that cloud is better. Even if you have a warehouse, if you wanna rely on our infrastructure for everything, including the actual experimentation pipelines, which can be quite expensive at scale, we have highly highly optimized architecture to to do those computations, then you might wanna consider cloud. Talking about the server client side SDKs decision. I said this before, it it is pretty common you'll end up using both in different situations. Like if you want to experiment on server side experiences and client side experiences, then you're almost going to need to do both. The exception would be you may only want to do server side if you're dealing with highly sensitive and confidential things that you don't want clients to be able to, you know, try to get themselves into a certain group, a certain experiment group or something like that. Best practices for anything like that that you'll you'll you'll wanna check that on the server side. Also worth calling out that this is a little bit dependent on your architecture. Like, obviously, if you have client side code that you want to experiment on, but it's all, like, server side rendered with something like Next. Js, SSR, or it's all like static websites, or it's all served by APIs that you'd like to experiment with on the server side, then then you could end up in a server SDK only situation. And the last thing I want to cover here on the design decisions is once you've made that cloud or warehouse native decision, you still need to decide how you're gonna get all your data into Statsig. If those metrics are already set up in your warehouse and you chose the warehouse native solution, you can just read them straight out of your warehouse. That that would be the cleanest. That's the most common solution. There's another solution that's useful in both warehouse native and cloud, which is that you can use Statsig's logging infrastructure to actually log events, sort of like you would with most product analytics or like customer data platform type solution. You can also ingest these events. This is kind of like if you have those events in your warehouse, but you'd like to use Statsig Cloud for one reason or another, you might consider an ingestion. And then the last one is using one of our pre built integrations. So if you have all your events not in a warehouse, but in, like, Segment and you'd like to pull those, like, Segment or another CDP, you'd like to pull those into Statsig, using one of our integrations might be a good choice. Alright. A couple other things you should be thinking about. These are the last few and the rubber really hits the road. Once you decide client or server side SDKs, you have to decide which SDK specifically you're using. It should just map to what type of environment you're working in. So the client side, it could be React Native, Android IOS, React, JavaScript, Angular, even something like Dart Flutter. And then after that, you 're gonna wanna follow our guides that we have in our docs to get that implemented and start testing things out. Some folks like to run an AA test for their very first experiment with the with the SDK. Of course, Statsig's here to help you through all that. You always reach out in Slack. If if if you're having trouble with one of our SDKs, it's quite likely I will I will personally be responding to your to your questions. So feel free to do that. And then lastly, getting your organization set up, your workspace in Statsig. So you'll wanna create projects. Projects are sort of like individual siloed sort of walled gardens for an individual often product within Statsig where like your metrics for that product don't touch other products and things like that. That should likely be its own project. Each project can have API keys, which you will you'll you'll create those for both client and server side. You can configure project and organization and team level settings, which is this project access management. So you wanna set up teams and what they're able to do. You can set up things like templates and things like that for your individual experiments and feature gates. And then the last thing is you can set up some type of authentication management system. So that might be SSO or we also have SCIM support to import users straight into Statsig. Awesome. So that's all we have for today. If you have any more questions, I would highly recommend reading through our docs. And if you have specific ones that aren't covered there, we'd love to hear from you in our Slack. Hope you enjoyed this, and I hope you enjoy using Statsig. Go Go in. Hey, everyone. I'm Brock, and I'm a product manager on the SDKs team here at Statsig. Today, we're gonna talk about how to get set up with Statsig.

---

## Statsig 2.3 - Building your first feature flag

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 2.3 - Building your first feature flag.txt`_

Hi, my name's Margaret Ann, and I'm on the product team here at Statsig. And today we're gonna be doing a quick overview of our feature flagging platform. Statsig's feature management suite consists of feature flags, dynamic configs, and parameter stores. Feature flags enable you to roll out and roll back new features in a safe, targeted way. Dynamic configs and parameter stores enable you to parameterize parts of your product for easy dynamic updates without having to push new code to production. Today, we're gonna dive a bit deeper into Statsig's feature flagging product. So you can use Statsig feature flags to power everything from user facing features to infrastructure rollouts and AI model updates. Feature flags control who gets to see a feature and who doesn't done via a set of conditional targeting logic. You can configure these rollout criteria based on environmental attributes such as browser or country or user level features such as email or whether a user is in a predefined segment or not. Statsig provides some out of the box targeting criteria to get you started, but you can also define any arbitrary custom targeting attributes via the custom fields that you include with your user object on SDK initialization. So in this example, we've defined a custom field is early access, and we're rolling this out basically to a set of early access users. Once your gate goes live, Statsig surfaces a set of debug tools such as health checks to help you confirm that you've set your flag up correctly, as well as a log explorer to explore and debug individual exposures. Once you've confirmed your flag is working as expected, this is where Statsig Special Sauce kicks in. As you start to roll out your new change to part of your audience, Statsink detects these automatic these partial rollouts and automatically turns this into an AB test between users who have your feature and users who don't yet have the new feature. This is helpful because you can see the impact of your rollout on your core business metrics and automatically detect any regressions before they impact your user base at scale. All right. That's a quick recap of Statsig's feature flags. To try it out for yourself, head to statsig dot com to try our demo account or sign up for an account to get started today. See you in the console.

---

## Statsig 2.4 - Creating your first experiment

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 2.4 - Creating your first experiment.txt`_

Hi. My name is Margaret Ann, and I'm on the product team here at Statsig. And today, we're gonna do a quick demo of our experimentation product. Let's hop in. While Statsig offers more advanced experimentation capability such as holdouts and multi arm bandits, Statsig's more key experimentation product is our ABN testing tool. So let's hop in and take a look. With experiments, you can run ABN multivariate tests on your product configurations, infrastructure, middleware. You name it, you can test it with Statsig. With experiments, you can define a hypothesis as well as primary and secondary regression metrics. You can use Statsig's power analysis calculator to ensure you're calculating the right target duration based on the metrics that you're looking to move. Once you've configured your groups that you wanna experiment on, as well as your targeting, you can use our powerful statistical analyses such as CUPID, which corrects for pre experiment bias, as well as sequential testing, which kind of dynamically expands or contracts your confidence intervals depending on how long the experiment has run, ensuring that you can run statistically rigorous experiments in less time. Once you've started your experiment, results are surfaced via the scorecard or what we call pulse. These are accessible to everyone on the team to be able to deep dive into the results. We've built Statsix core experience leveraging a design principle called progressive disclosure, which creates a seemingly simple experience on the surface that can become more and more complex and powerful for more power users. This means that this product is very accessible to everyone on the team. Good example is you can click into a metric view to see metric details, the raw stats underlying the computation, as well as the time series of the metric deltas to be able to detect things like novelty effects and whether they might be at play. You can also look at how metrics are trending along a certain set of logged metric dimensions. These are configured and logged alongside the incoming events and calculated automatically in experiment results. If you see this and you still are saying, I wonder what's going on here. There's a counterintuitive result. You can create a custom query using Statsig's explore tab. So for example, I could calculate product view and slice it by OS to see if this is disproportionately coming from Android or an iOS audience. When it comes to final experiment readout, the experiment summary is a place that provides a one stop shop for memorializing critical experiment decision context, including a final snapshot of the test groups, results, and any key key takeaways. Finally, as your team ramps up on experimentation practice at scale, you can zoom out to see a meta analysis of your experimentation trends via the insights tab. With insights, you see a bird's eye view timeline of all your experiments along with the top line metric impact for each experiment. You can also build up your team's knowledge bank of experiment results, where you can memorialize historical experiments run and decisions made for future generations. Alright, that's a quick recap of Statsig's core experimentation product, but to try it out for yourself, head on over to Statsig dot com, try our demo, or create an account. See you in the console!

---

## Statsig 2.5 - Product Analytics Overview

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 2.5 - Product Analytics Overview.txt`_

Hi. I'm Makin, a product manager here at Statsig. I'm here to give you a quick overview of Statsig product analytics, which is purpose built to help you make better product decisions and ship more successful products. Statsig product analytics exists in the analytics portion of and is divided into two major services, dashboards and metric explorer. Dashboards allow you to analyze the results of your explorations in order to communicate a data driven narrative and also helps you tracking important metrics for features and products that you care about. Behind each widget on a dashboard is a product analytics exploration. Here in our demo environment, we have an ecommerce site, and we can see things like total purchases, how often people are adding to cart, and how many people are doing purchase events. We can also see things like conversions through funnels, retention, and even user journeys. In Metric Explorer, organize our charts that enable you to answer specific types of questions about how people are using your product. These include trends and engagement, conversion through funnels, retention, user journeys, and the distribution of specific values. Here inside Metric Drill Down, which we use for trend analysis, we are powered by the exact same events that power your experience and feature gates. You can choose events and then also change how you count those events. Right now, we're looking at the count of purchase events over time, but we could also look at how many unique people are making purchase events or even do things like understand the average purchase value. Here in funnels, we can see how people are converting through funnels, and we have a lot of information about, like, specifically how people are converting. In retention, we can see how often people are coming back to your product due specific actions in order to understand how sticky certain features or products are. And because we're integrated with things like feature gates, you can split out your retention analysis by people who have certain features and people who don't. Here in user journeys, you can analyze how people get to specific portions of your product or where people go afterwards. And Distributions allow you to understand distribution of specific values, including things like frequency, the distribution of certain event property values, or aggregated property values of events. We hope you now have a better sense of the types of questions you can answer with Statsink Product Analytics, and we hope you get to try it out soon.

---

## Statsig 2.6 - How to build an experimentation culture

_Source: `data/raw/captions/Statsig 2.6 - How to build an experimentation culture.txt`_

Lots of teams arguably, most teams these days actually aren't launching products in this iterative data driven way. And as a result, the impact is that they're actually leaving money on the table. So let me break that down and explain why. So, on the left here, it's pretty intuitive that some features are naturally going to be winners and some aren't. Ronnie Cohabi, who is a very well seasoned kind of product experimentation guru, has written extensively about his experiences across a variety of different companies like Microsoft, Airbnb, and Amazon. And he's kind of observed this consistent rule of thirds is what he calls it, where most companies don't have an experimentation hit rate above thirty percent. So that means that a third of your features are going to be winners. A third are gonna be neutral at best, maybe require some iteration to become positive. And then a third of your features that you launch are actually bad. They're bad for your top line metrics. They're hurting things. And so let's pretend you didn't experiment, you didn't measure the impact of your launches and you just shipped everything. At a top line, your metric curve might look like this. But under the hood, each time you're shipping a poor performing feature without realizing it, there's active degradation of your top line metrics. So imagine instead of just blindly shipping everything, you started to use data to determine which of your features are winners and which aren't so great. And you only launched the winners and rolled back all the features that weren't very well performing. Well, you might actually shift your top line metric trajectory in a meaningful way. And so if you're not doing this as a company today, you're leaving money on the table. And smart companies realize this and make sure that they're being super data driven with how they build and only launching their winners. So before we hop into the nitty gritty of how you get from blindly launching everything to being super methodical and data driven, I think it's helpful to paint a picture of what the ideal end state looks like. Like what really constitutes a great experimentation culture? So, oftentimes when people think of great experimentation cultures, they think of the FANG companies or MANG or whatever they're called these days, I can't keep up. These companies run every launch like an experiment, They reliably make decisions to roll out or roll back their features using data. And they actually empower their entire company with data to the point that impact kind of becomes this shared language of prioritization. However, that said, that's great, it's wonderful, but these companies also have access to unparalleled resources like custom in house tooling for experimentation needs and whole teams of data scientists embedded within different product orgs. And so this can kind of feel like unattainable end state for a lot of companies who aren't maybe FANG level resourced. Good news though is that more than ever, this flavor of data driven experimentation culture isn't just siloed into the FANG companies. At Statsig, I've worked with companies like Rack Room who go from zero to one hundred and fifty experiments a year, or Notion who went from single digit to hundreds of experiments per quarter. And a whole plethora of other startups or small mid sized companies like Lime or whatnot are OfferUp who just meaningfully increased their experimentation velocity without having to invest a ton in this kind of in house tooling stack. So, that's FAANG, that's what good looks like. But how would you define that more broadly? What are the attributes that make up good experimentation cultures? Well, in my experience, I think we've seen three things that are true if you've built a great experimentation culture. The first is that decisions are going be made using data in a distributed bottoms up way across the company. The second is that outcomes are going be measured on both short term, I. E. Experiment level, and then longer term like quarter or half or even year long time horizons. And then the third is that data will be seen as empowering. It's not a nice to have, but like a true need to have. It is part of the core cultural fiber of a company. So, let's double click on each of these a little bit. So, the first distributed decision making at scale. Have you ever been at a company where your work is blocked on someone because they haven't approved a decision or they have to run it up the chain to get leadership to approve, this is basically the opposite effect of distributed decision making at scale. When companies have a truly distributed bottoms up culture, good tooling enables easy measurement and quantification of outcomes so that people are talking in a shared language and can make easy decisions. When you have data it's pretty easy to say, is this good? Is this bad? Should we ship? Should we not? There's no blocking on someone's opinion or waiting on someone higher above you to make a decision. And what's cool about this is if this is done well, teams actually become self optimizing. So once they know what they're being measured on and what they're optimizing for, they can pivot to actually build based on new inputs and results as they come in versus waiting on leadership to set direction top down once a quarter or once a half or whatever the planning cadence is. The last thing that's kind of neat here is that the structure of the organization starts to change when data is deployed. So teams start to own outcomes like key metrics, not product surfaces. And so a team might touch seven different product surfaces or different things in different organizations because that enables their goal even though they don't own those product services. So, it kind of shifts how the organization actually functions day to day. Second is that outcomes are measured on both short and long term time horizons. So, in an ideal world, teams are constantly thinking about impact, but they're not just like juicing for short term impact. I'm sure folks have seen folks who kind of try to game things with a quick win experiment at the end of the half. That's not the ideal state. Teams are measuring the impact of individual week long experiments, and those are kind of individual data points, but then they're also running a long term holdout across all their feature launches experiments. And the holdout will help them quantify the true impact of their changes in aggregate over this longer term time horizon. Holdouts are really interesting. Every company does them differently, but often they're configured as like a team level holdout or an org level holdout over the period of whatever the business measures, whether it's quarters or halves or even year long. And then they help this team justify their impact at the end of the half and help plan for the next half. In extreme cases, companies might actually set up very long term holdouts. If they're launching a set of features they're worried might be detrimental to the user experience, they might do this. Or they just want to see interaction effects amongst different launches over time. An example here that I always find fun is Facebook actually had an ads holdout for ten plus years. One percent or so of people actually, those lucky people did not see ads on the Facebook platform at all. And I think that's a testament to Facebook's true commitment to being data driven because that's a lot of revenue they were leaving on the table running that holdout. They were willing to do it to see, hey, let's make sure we're not degrading the experience too much for these folks. And then last but not least, data is seen as empowering. In organizations where data isn't being used as the common language, it comes down to a matter of opinion when you're making a final decision. Who speaks the most confidently or worse, who's the highest paid person in the room? The so called hippo. That's a Ronny Kochavi term, which I always enjoy. When you have data, this culture can't thrive. It just doesn't work. A Healthy experimentation culture fosters discussion around experiment wins and losses. And people actually love launching experiments that aren't good, that are losses, because they can be learned from, can take those learnings and we can integrate them into future experiments. Iteration is encouraged and celebrated and people view impact ultimately as the key to success and don't just talk about, hey, I launched ten things. They say, hey, I had a one percent impact on DAO or revenue. One kind of final end state here that I find interesting is when impact is such a shared language that people actually start incorporating it into their performance reviews. So at the end of the half, when you're talking about what you did that half, you're talking in terms of, hey, I had X impact based on these ten experiments or based on this holdout group. So that's an image of end state ideal nirvana, what does good look like. But experimentation cultures aren't built overnight. And so I think the next natural question obviously is how do you get there as an organization? So at Satsig we've kind of mapped out this journey in a framework called Walk, Jog, Run, Fly. And each phase has a series of activities that you can do and expected outcomes to achieve when you've kind of completed each phase. So let's dive into it and actually take a look at what each of these phases entail. Alright, phase one, walk. One is all about building a data baseline. You might be coming from zero metric coverage or very shallow metrics like just clicks or page views or kind of website engagement metrics. And this phase is about improving that baseline to understand your core product and business metrics. So, do you do this? You start by thinking about your business's North Star metrics. Are you a B2B SaaS company? Then maybe you should bubble everything up to ARR. Are you a daily habit consumer app? Maybe then in that case you care most about DAO or daily active users. So, you're going to want to figure out what your North Star is and then you want to define a key set of growth metrics around this. So, that's DAU, Wow, MAU or growth accounting metrics, retention curves, key funnels. The thing to note here is that these might be user level metrics if that's your key unit of optimization or business level, domain level, right? Like if you're a B2B SaaS company, maybe you care about number of new domains on the platform. You should be tailoring this unit to whatever your business cares about most as reflected in those North Star metrics. The next step is how do you drive awareness and ownership of these metrics on your team. It's one thing to go create a pretty dash, but if no one checks it, it doesn't do much value for the organization. So, create the dashboard, send a daily report, get teams eyes on these every single day. Check-in on these metrics and sprint planning. Do whatever you need to do to kind of get the team engaged with them and thinking about their impact in terms of these metrics day to day. The next thing that is kind of part of this walk phase is choosing tooling actually to automate away much of the extra work and overhead associated with experimenting. So, choosing a good experimentation tool will either replace your data science team, or if you don't have one, create kind of a data science function. Or if you do have a data science team, scale them by automating away a lot of the repetitive day to day work associated with just experiment analysis, which frees them up to do more fun interesting one off explorations. Another thing that a good experimentation tool does is it actually creates the right hooks in daily, weekly, monthly behaviors. So it might email you when your experiment has hit target duration so that you're not constantly peeking at it. Or it might send you kind of a weekly update of how things are progressing or how your key metrics are doing. So it kind of takes some of the mental load of having to go into the tool and check constantly and automates that away. And then the third thing that really good tooling can do is it actually democratizes access to being data driven and experimenting. It means that everyone on the team can be in there creating experiments. They don't have to route through a DS or file a ticket or wait in the queue to get data science resources. It just means that everyone can kind of be unblocked to move faster and participate in the experience end to end themselves. All right, phase two, jog. So, at this point, you've passed the walk phase, you've established your baseline metrics, you know have a tool instrumented, you're kind of getting up and running. Once you're here, you're going to want to start thinking about how you deploy that tool to put every launch behind a feature flag and start running things as experiments. So, this is going to help you basically start to understand the impact of everything you launch so that you can start to only ship your winners and kill your losers. Remember the rule of thirds I was mentioning earlier, this is where this actually tactically starts to come into play because you're gonna start to see, okay, this feature is doing well, launch. This feature is not doing well, roll back. And just starting to scale this as a practice for every launch is key here. And the other thing you're gonna start doing in this phase is you're actually gonna level up from the basic feature flagging type experiments into full blown experimentation. So what do I mean by that? Well, you'll actually start to run product development cycles based on hypotheses instead of just random product decisions. And you'll slowly shift towards experiments being the bulk of your roadmap. The other thing you'll do here is you'll start to build a muscle around the life cycle of experimentation. So not just plugging in some things and running an experiment, but actually having an experiment design doc, maybe even establishing a template for your organization to standardize how people design experiments. Having an experiment review, you know, running the experiment and then having a share out post experiment review where you discuss learnings, next steps, etcetera, and then write those down somewhere to start building your experiment learnings library. Phase three. Let's talk a little bit about run. So in this phase, you're starting to seriously ramp up your experiment velocity and you might even be like 10x ing the number of experiments that you're running. So experimentation culture is not isolated here. It's like everyone across the organization is trying to experiment. You might have one team who started small and now they're starting to scale this broadly. You're going from, this is an actual screenshot we had of a customer where they had like seventy three experiments when they started in fall of twenty twenty two and they're up to kind of over sixteen hundred cumulative experiments today. And in eighteen months, that's pretty insane growth, but this is something where you start to see the whole organization leaning in and just launching experiment after experiment. The other thing that you're gonna start to do in this phase is it's actually gonna inform every part of your product development cycle. So it's not just come up with an idea, launch an experiment, but you're actually using analytics and data to understand the opportunities that you have as an organization. And then you're using that from opportunity identification through to feature rollout and success analysis. And then that actually feeds back into the learnings of what should we launch next. And so this kind of drives this virtuous loop where you're identifying a trend via analysis, targeting a feature rollout or experiment to address this trend, and then analyzing the impact of these changes to inform the next set of tests to run. Okay, finally, end state, lie. So in the fly phase, every product launch is an experiment. And experimentation starts to expand across your whole product stack. So it's not just UI UX experiments, but it's truly experimentation at every level from the front end to back end to infra to your underlying ML models. And so everyone across the org, every team, every layer of the stack is experimenting. You might be experimenting on pricing, recommendation algorithms, whatever you wanna optimize, you're running experiments. And then last but not least, all three of the conditions that we talked about at the beginning of the presentation are being met. So decisions are being made in a distributed way at scale, outcomes are measured on both a short and long term horizon. This screenshot actually, I was talking about holdouts earlier, this screenshot is of a product holdout in action. This might be the H1 product holdout for a given team. And last but not least, data is ultimately seen as empowering. People celebrate failures as much as they celebrate successes because you learn something and that's useful in and of itself. Actually on this, my favorite quote about celebrating failure is from Chamath Paliapatia, who was an early Facebook growth lead. He famously recounted on the Lex Friedman podcast about his time at Facebook growth. He said, I would celebrate teams. I would applaud these teams who ran twelve experiments and all twelve failed. And I thought this was pretty striking because if I imagine myself in those PM's shoes, I'd be mortified if I ran twelve experiments and all twelve failed. But look, for him this represented that they were valuing velocity and learning and that was enough. That was great. The last thing at this kind of fly stage that's worth calling out is that as you start to scale the corpus of your historical data, you're going to be able to deploy kind of cool things like meta analysis, where you can actually look at trends amongst your metrics and kind of your historical metric trends and start to identify where it's lucrative to experiment, metrics that have moved in the past with experimentation, and where it may not be worth your time even bothering to try to experiment. And so these kind of self learning, self reinforcing systems can start to thrive the more data you collect. All right, so that's the framework in a nutshell. I mean, everyone's team and organization starts at a different point in this progression. So, there's no shame in that. We talk to folks every day who are at different kind of entry points in this life cycle, But knowing what good looks like and what you're targeting, I think is really important. And then last but not least experimentation is a team sport we like to say. And talking to other organizations, talking within your organization amongst teams, like knowledge sharing on what works and what doesn't can really help you level up faster.

---
